FALSEFY0000034088http://www.exxonmobil.com/20221231#CrudeOilAndProductPurchaseshttp://fasb.org/us-

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022|  
  
UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

![xom-20221231_g1.gif](xom-20221231_g1.gif)

FORM 10-K

☑ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022

or

☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from  to

Commission File Number 1-2256

Exxon Mobil Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
New Jersey| | 13-5409005  
(State or other jurisdiction of  
incorporation or organization)| | (I.R.S. Employer  
Identification Number)  
  
5959 Las Colinas Boulevard, Irving, Texas 75039-2298

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

(972) 940-6000

(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  
  
  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Title of Each Class|  | Trading Symbol|  | Name of Each Exchange on Which
Registered  
Common Stock, without par value|  | XOM|  | New York Stock Exchange  
0.142% Notes due 2024| | XOM24B| | New York Stock Exchange  
0.524% Notes due 2028| | XOM28| | New York Stock Exchange  
0.835% Notes due 2032| | XOM32| | New York Stock Exchange  
1.408% Notes due 2039| | XOM39A| | New York Stock Exchange  
  
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☑

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to
Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit
and post such files). Yes ☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer,"
"accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth
company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Large accelerated filer| |

☑

| | Accelerated filer| | ☐  
Non-accelerated filer| | ☐| | Smaller reporting company| | ☐  
| | | | Emerging growth company| | ☐  
  
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has
elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new
or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a)
of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and
attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting
firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☑

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined
by Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☑

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant on June 30, 2022, the last business day of the registrant's most
recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on the closing price on that
date of $85.64 on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape, was in excess of
$356 billion.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Class|  | Outstanding as of January 31, 2023  
Common stock, without par value|  | 4,070,984,988  
  
Documents Incorporated by Reference: Proxy Statement for the 2023 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders (Part III)

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION|  
| FORM 10-K|  
|

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022

|  
| |  
| TABLE OF CONTENTS|  
| |  
PART I  
| |  
Item 1.| Business|

1  
  
Item 1A.| Risk Factors|

2  
  
Item 1B.| Unresolved Staff Comments|

6  
  
Item 2.| Properties|

7  
  
Item 3.| Legal Proceedings|

28  
  
Item 4.| Mine Safety Disclosures|

28  
  
Information about our Executive Officers|

29  
  
| |  
PART II  
| |  
Item 5.| Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities|

30  
  
| |  
Item 7.| Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations|

30  
  
Item 7A.| Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk|

30  
  
Item 8.| Financial Statements and Supplementary Data|

31  
  
Item 9.| Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure|

31  
  
Item 9A.| Controls and Procedures|

31  
  
Item 9B.| Other Information|

31  
  
Item 9C.| Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections|

31  
  
| |  
PART III  
| |  
Item 10.| Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance|

32  
  
Item 11.| Executive Compensation|

32  
  
Item 12.| Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters|

32  
  
Item 13.| Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence|

33  
  
Item 14.| Principal Accounting Fees and Services|

33  
  
| |  
PART IV  
| |  
Item 15.| Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules|

33  
  
Item 16.| Form 10-K Summary|

33  
  
| |  
Financial Section|

34  
  
Index to Exhibits|

133  
  
Signatures|

134  
  
Exhibits 31 and 32 -- Certifications|  
  
  

  

* * *

  

PART I

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
ITEM 1. BUSINESS| | | |  
  
Exxon Mobil Corporation was incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1882.
Divisions and affiliated companies of ExxonMobil operate or market products in
the United States and most other countries of the world. Our principal
business involves exploration for, and production of, crude oil and natural
gas; manufacture, trade, transport and sale of crude oil, natural gas,
petroleum products, petrochemicals, and a wide variety of specialty products;
and pursuit of lower-emission business opportunities including carbon capture
and storage, hydrogen, and lower-emission fuels. Affiliates of ExxonMobil
conduct extensive research programs in support of these businesses.

Exxon Mobil Corporation has several divisions and hundreds of affiliates, many
with names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso, Mobil or XTO. For convenience
and simplicity, in this report the terms ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso, Mobil, and
XTO, as well as terms like Corporation, Company, our, we, and its, are
sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or groups of
affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context in question.

The energy and petrochemical industries are highly competitive, both within
the industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy, fuel,
and chemical needs of industrial and individual consumers. Certain industry
participants, including ExxonMobil, are expanding investments in lower-
emission energy and emission-reduction services and technologies. The
Corporation competes with other firms in the sale or purchase of needed goods
and services in many national and international markets and employs all
methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes.

Operating data and industry segment information for the Corporation are
contained in the Financial Section of this report under the following:
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations: Business Results" and "Note 18: Disclosures about Segments and
Related Information". Information on oil and gas reserves is contained in the
"Oil and Gas Reserves" part of the "Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas
Exploration and Production Activities" portion of the Financial Section of
this report.

ExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to the development of proprietary
technology. We have a wide array of research programs designed to meet the
needs identified in each of our business segments. ExxonMobil held over 8
thousand active patents worldwide at the end of 2022. For technology licensed
to third parties, revenues totaled approximately $129 million in 2022.
Although technology is an important contributor to the overall operations and
results of our Company, the profitability of each business segment is not
dependent on any individual patent, trade secret, trademark, license,
franchise, or concession.

ExxonMobil operates in a highly complex, competitive, and changing global
energy business environment where decisions and risks play out over time
horizons that are often decades in length. This long-term orientation
underpins the Corporation's philosophy on talent development.

Talent development begins with recruiting exceptional candidates and continues
with individually planned experiences and training designed to facilitate
broad development and a deep understanding of our business across the business
cycle. Our career-oriented approach to talent development results in strong
retention and an average length of service of about 30 years for our career
employees. Compensation, benefits, and workplace programs support the
Corporation's talent management approach, and are designed to attract and
retain employees for a career through compensation that is market competitive,
long-term oriented, and highly differentiated by individual performance.

Over 60 percent of our global employee workforce is from outside the U.S., and
over the past decade 39 percent of our global hires for management,
professional and technical positions were female and 35 percent of our U.S.
hires for management, professional and technical positions were minorities.
With over 160 nationalities represented in the company, we encourage and
respect diversity of thought, ideas, and perspective from our workforce. We
consider and monitor diversity through all stages of employment, including
recruitment, training, and development of our employees. We also work closely
with the communities where we operate to identify and invest in initiatives
that help support local needs, including local talent and skill development.

The number of regular employees was 62 thousand, 63 thousand, and 72 thousand
at years ended 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. Regular employees are
defined as active executive, management, professional, technical, and wage
employees who work full time or part time for the Corporation and are covered
by the Corporation's benefit plans and programs.

1

* * *

  

As discussed in item 1A. Risk Factors in this report, compliance with existing
and potential future government regulations, including taxes, environmental
regulations, and other government regulations and policies that directly or
indirectly affect the production and sale of our products, may have material
effects on the capital expenditures, earnings, and competitive position of
ExxonMobil. With respect to the environment, throughout ExxonMobil's
businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and minimize the
impact of our operations on air, water, and ground, including, but not limited
to, compliance with environmental regulations. These include a significant
investment in refining infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean
fuels, as well as projects to monitor and reduce air, water, and waste
emissions, and expenditures for asset retirement obligations. Using
definitions and guidelines established by the American Petroleum Institute,
ExxonMobil's 2022 worldwide environmental expenditures for all such
preventative and remediation steps, including ExxonMobil's share of equity
company expenditures, were $5.7 billion, of which $3.8 billion were included
in expenses with the remainder in capital expenditures. As the Corporation
progresses its emission-reduction plans, worldwide environmental expenditures
are expected to increase to approximately $7.3 billion in 2023, with capital
expenditures expected to account for approximately 46 percent of the total.
Costs for 2024 are anticipated to increase to approximately $8.2 billion, with
capital expenditures expected to account for approximately 51 percent of the
total.

Information concerning the source and availability of raw materials used in
the Corporation's business, the extent of seasonality in the business, the
possibility of renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the
election of governments, and risks attendant to foreign operations may be
found in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and "Item 2. Properties" in this report.

ExxonMobil maintains a website at exxonmobil.com. Our annual report on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available through our website as
soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the
reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Also available on the
Corporation's website are the company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code
of Ethics and Business Conduct, and additional policies as well as the
charters of the audit, compensation, and other committees of the Board of
Directors. Information on our website is not incorporated into this report.

The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports,
proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS| | | |  
  
ExxonMobil's financial and operating results are subject to a variety of risks
inherent in the global oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses, and the pursuit
of lower-emission business opportunities. Many of these risk factors are not
within the company's control and could adversely affect our business, our
financial and operating results, or our financial condition. These risk
factors include:

Supply and Demand

The oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses are fundamentally commodity
businesses. This means ExxonMobil's operations and earnings may be
significantly affected by changes in oil, gas, and petrochemical prices and by
changes in margins on refined products. Oil, gas, petrochemical, and product
prices and margins in turn depend on local, regional, and global events or
conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity or
product. Any material decline in oil or natural gas prices could have a
material adverse effect on the company's operations, financial condition, and
proved reserves, especially in the Upstream segment. On the other hand, a
material increase in oil or natural gas prices could have a material adverse
effect on the company's operations, especially in the Energy Products,
Chemical Products, and Specialty Products segments. Our pursuit of lower-
emission business opportunities including carbon capture and storage,
hydrogen, and lower-emission fuels also depends on the growth and development
of markets for those products and services, including implementation of
supportive government policies and developments in technology to enable those
products and services to be provided on a cost-effective basis at commercial
scale. See "Climate Change and the Energy Transition" in this Item 1A.

Economic conditions. The demand for energy and petrochemicals is generally
linked closely with broad-based economic activities and levels of prosperity.
The occurrence of recessions or other periods of low or negative economic
growth will typically have a direct adverse impact on our results. Other
factors that affect general economic conditions in the world or in a major
region, such as changes in population growth rates, periods of civil unrest,
government regulation or austerity programs, trade tariffs or broader
breakdowns in global trade, security or public health issues and responses, or
currency exchange rate fluctuations, can also impact the demand for energy and
petrochemicals. Sovereign debt downgrades, defaults, inability to access debt
markets due to rating, banking, or legal constraints, liquidity crises, the
breakup or restructuring of fiscal, monetary, or political systems such as the
European Union, and other events or conditions that impair the functioning of
financial markets and institutions also pose risks to ExxonMobil, including
risks to the safety of our financial assets and to the ability of our partners
and customers to fulfill their commitments to ExxonMobil. Our future business
results, including cash flows and financing needs, will also be affected by
the rate of recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the occurrence and
severity of future outbreaks, the responsive actions taken by governments and
others, and the resulting effects on regional and global markets and
economies.

2

* * *

  

Other demand-related factors. Other factors that may affect the demand for
oil, gas, and petrochemicals, and therefore impact our results, include
technological improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns;
increased competitiveness of, or government policy support for, alternative
energy sources; changes in technology that alter fuel choices, such as
technological advances in energy storage that make wind and solar more
competitive for power generation; changes in consumer preferences for our
products, including consumer demand for alternative fueled or electric
transportation or alternatives to plastic products; and broad-based changes in
personal income levels. See also "Climate Change and the Energy Transition"
below.

Other supply-related factors. Commodity prices and margins also vary depending
on a number of factors affecting supply. For example, increased supply from
the development of new oil and gas supply sources and technologies to enhance
recovery from existing sources tends to reduce commodity prices to the extent
such supply increases are not offset by commensurate growth in demand.
Similarly, increases in industry refining or petrochemical manufacturing
capacity relative to demand tend to reduce margins on the affected products.
World oil, gas, and petrochemical supply levels can also be affected by
factors that reduce available supplies, such as the level of and adherence by
participating countries to production quotas established by OPEC or "OPEC+"
and other agreements among sovereigns; government policies, including actions
intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, that restrict oil and gas
production or increase associated costs; and the occurrence of wars, hostile
actions, natural disasters, disruptions in competitors' operations, logistics
constraints, or unexpected unavailability of distribution channels that may
disrupt supplies. Technological change can also alter the relative costs for
competitors to find, produce, and refine oil and gas and to manufacture
petrochemicals.

Other market factors. ExxonMobil's business results are also exposed to
potential negative impacts due to changes in interest rates, inflation,
currency exchange rates, and other local or regional market conditions. In
addition to direct potential impacts on our costs and revenues, market factors
such as rates of inflation may indirectly impact our results to the extent
such factors reduce general rates of economic growth and therefore energy
demand, as discussed under "Economic conditions". Market factors may also
result in losses from commodity derivatives and other instruments we use to
hedge price exposures or for trading purposes. Additional information
regarding the potential future impact of market factors on our businesses is
included or incorporated by reference under Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk in this report.

Government and Political Factors

ExxonMobil's results can be adversely affected by political or regulatory
developments affecting our operations.

Access limitations. A number of countries limit access to their oil and gas
resources, including by restricting leasing or permitting activities, or may
place resources off-limits from development altogether. Restrictions on
production of oil and gas could increase to the extent governments view such
measures as a viable approach for pursuing national and global energy and
climate policies. Restrictions on foreign investment in the oil and gas sector
tend to increase in times of high commodity prices, when national governments
may have less need for outside sources of private capital. Many countries also
restrict the import or export of certain products based on point of origin.

Restrictions on doing business. ExxonMobil is subject to laws and sanctions
imposed by the United States or by other jurisdictions where we do business
that may prohibit ExxonMobil or its affiliates from doing business in certain
countries, or restricting the kind of business that may be conducted. Such
restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to competitors who may not be
subject to comparable restrictions.

Lack of legal certainty. Some countries in which we do business lack well-
developed legal systems, or have not yet adopted, or may be unable to
maintain, clear regulatory frameworks for oil and gas development. Lack of
legal certainty exposes our operations to increased risk of adverse or
unpredictable actions by government officials, and also makes it more
difficult for us to enforce our contracts. In some cases these risks can be
partially offset by agreements to arbitrate disputes in an international
forum, but the adequacy of this remedy may still depend on the local legal
system to enforce an award.

Regulatory and litigation risks. Even in countries with well-developed legal
systems where ExxonMobil does business, we remain exposed to changes in law or
interpretation of settled law (including changes that result from
international treaties and accords) and changes in policy that could adversely
affect our results, such as:

•increases in taxes, duties, or government royalty rates (including
retroactive claims);

•price controls;

•changes in environmental regulations or other laws that increase our cost of
compliance or reduce or delay available business opportunities (including
changes in laws affecting offshore drilling operations, water use, emissions,
hydraulic fracturing, or production or use of new or recycled plastics);

•actions by policy-makers, regulators, or other actors to delay or deny
necessary licenses and permits, restrict the availability of oil and gas
leases or the transportation of our products, or otherwise require changes in
the company's business or strategy that could result in reduced returns;

•adoption of regulations mandating efficiency standards, the use of
alternative fuels or uncompetitive fuel components;

•adoption of government payment transparency regulations that could require us
to disclose competitively sensitive commercial information, or that could
cause us to violate the non-disclosure laws of other countries; and

•government actions to cancel contracts, redenominate the official currency,
renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally, or
expropriate assets.

3

* * *

  

Legal remedies available to compensate us for expropriation or other takings
may be inadequate.

We also may be adversely affected by the outcome of litigation, especially in
countries such as the United States in which very large and unpredictable
punitive damage awards may occur; by government enforcement proceedings
alleging non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations; or by state and
local government actors as well as private plaintiffs acting in parallel that
attempt to use the legal system to promote public policy agendas (including
seeking to reduce the production and sale of hydrocarbon products through
litigation targeting the company or other industry participants), gain
political notoriety, or obtain monetary awards from the company. The adoption
of similar legal practices in the European Union or elsewhere would broaden
this risk and has begun to be applied to some of our competitors in the
European Union.

Security concerns. Successful operation of particular facilities or projects
may be disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, cybersecurity
attacks, the application of national security laws or policies that result in
restricting our ability to do business in a particular jurisdiction, and other
local security concerns. Such concerns may be directed specifically at our
company, our industry, or as part of broader movements and may require us to
incur greater costs for security or to shut down operations for a period of
time.

Climate Change and the Energy Transition

Net-zero scenarios. Driven by concern over the risks of climate change, a
number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of,
regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions including emissions
from the production and use of oil and gas and their products. These actions
are being taken both independently by national and regional governments and
within the framework of United Nations Conference of the Parties summits under
which many countries of the world have endorsed objectives to reduce the
atmospheric concentration of CO2 over the coming decades, with an ambition
ultimately to achieve "net zero". Net zero means that emissions of greenhouse
gases from human activities would be balanced by actions that remove such
gases from the atmosphere. Expectations for transition of the world's energy
system to lower-emission sources, and ultimately net-zero, derive from
hypothetical scenarios that reflect many assumptions about the future and
reflect substantial uncertainties. The company's objective to play a leading
role in the energy transition, including the company's announced ambition
ultimately to achieve net zero with respect to Scope 1 and 2 emissions from
operations where ExxonMobil is the operator, carries risks that the
transition, including underlying technologies, policies, and markets as
discussed in more detail below, will not develop at the pace or in the manner
expected by current net-zero scenarios. The success of our strategy for the
energy transition will also depend on our ability to recognize key signposts
of change in the global energy system on a timely basis, and our corresponding
ability to direct investment to the technologies and businesses, at the
appropriate stage of development, to best capitalize on our competitive
strengths.

Greenhouse gas restrictions. Government actions intended to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions include adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, carbon-
based import duties or other trade tariffs, minimum renewable usage
requirements, restrictive permitting, increased mileage and other efficiency
standards, mandates for sales of electric vehicles, mandates for use of
specific fuels or technologies, and other incentives or mandates designed to
support transitioning to lower-emission energy sources. Political and other
actors and their agents also increasingly seek to advance climate change
objectives indirectly, such as by seeking to reduce the availability or
increase the cost of financing and investment in the oil and gas sector and
taking actions intended to promote changes in business strategy for oil and
gas companies. Depending on how policies are formulated and applied, such
policies could negatively affect our investment returns, make our hydrocarbon-
based products more expensive or less competitive, lengthen project
implementation times, and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as shift
hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon alternatives. Current and
pending greenhouse gas regulations or policies may also increase our
compliance costs, such as for monitoring or sequestering emissions.

Technology and lower-emission solutions. Achieving societal ambitions to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ultimately achieve net zero will require
new technologies to reduce the cost and increase the scalability of
alternative energy sources, as well as technologies such as carbon capture and
storage (CCS). CCS technologies, focused initially on capturing and
sequestering CO2 emissions from high-intensity industrial activities, can
assist in meeting society's objective to mitigate atmospheric greenhouse gas
levels while also helping ensure the availability of the reliable and
affordable energy the world requires. ExxonMobil has established a Low Carbon
Solutions (LCS) business unit to advance the development and deployment of
these technologies and projects, including CCS, hydrogen, and lower-emission
fuels, breakthrough energy efficiency processes, advanced energy-saving
materials, and other technologies. The company's efforts include both in-house
research and development as well as collaborative efforts with leading
universities and with commercial partners involved in advanced lower-emission
energy technologies. Our future results and ability to grow our LCS business,
help nations meet their emission-reduction goals, and succeed through the
energy transition will depend in part on the success of these research and
collaboration efforts and on our ability to adapt and apply the strengths of
our current business model to providing the energy products of the future in a
cost-competitive manner.

4

* * *

  

Policy and market development. The scale of the world's energy system means
that, in addition to developments in technology as discussed above, a
successful energy transition will require appropriate support from governments
and private participants throughout the global economy. Our ability to develop
and deploy CCS and other lower-emission energy technologies at commercial
scale, and the growth and future returns of LCS and other emerging businesses
in which we invest, will depend in part on the continued development of
supportive government policies and markets. Failure or delay of these policies
or markets to materialize or be maintained could adversely impact these
investments. Policy and other actions that result in restricting the
availability of hydrocarbon products without commensurate reduction in demand
may have unpredictable adverse effects, including increased commodity price
volatility; periods of significantly higher commodity prices and resulting
inflationary pressures; and local or regional energy shortages. Such effects
in turn may depress economic growth or lead to rapid or conflicting shifts in
policy by different actors, with resulting adverse effects on our businesses.
In addition, the existence of supportive policies in any jurisdiction is not a
guarantee that those policies will continue in the future. See also the
discussion of "Supply and Demand," "Government and Political Factors," and
"Operational and Other Factors" in this Item 1A.

Operational and Other Factors

In addition to external economic and political factors, our future business
results also depend on our ability to manage successfully those factors that
are, at least in part, within our control. The extent to which we manage these
factors will impact our performance relative to competition. For projects in
which we are not the operator, we depend on the management effectiveness of
one or more co-venturers whom we do not control.

Exploration and development program. Our ability to maintain and grow our oil
and gas production depends on the success of our exploration and development
efforts. Among other factors, we must continuously improve our ability to
identify the most promising resource prospects and apply our project
management expertise to bring discovered resources online as scheduled and
within budget.

Project and portfolio management. The long-term success of ExxonMobil's
Upstream and Product Solutions businesses, as well as the future success of
LCS and other emerging lower-emission investments, depends on complex, long-
term, capital intensive projects. These projects in turn require a high degree
of project management expertise to maximize efficiency. Specific factors that
can affect the performance of major projects include our ability to: negotiate
successfully with joint venturers, partners, governments, suppliers,
customers, or others; model and optimize reservoir performance; develop
markets for project outputs, whether through long-term contracts or the
development of effective spot markets; manage changes in operating conditions
and costs, including costs of third party equipment or services such as
drilling rigs and shipping, supply-chain disruptions, and inflationary cost
pressures; prevent, to the extent possible, and respond effectively to
unforeseen technical difficulties that could delay project start-up or cause
unscheduled project downtime; and influence the performance of project
operators where ExxonMobil does not perform that role. In addition to the
effective management of individual projects, ExxonMobil's success, including
our ability to mitigate risk and provide attractive returns to shareholders,
depends on our ability to successfully manage our overall portfolio, including
diversification among types and locations of our projects, products produced,
and strategies to divest assets. We may not be able to divest assets at a
price or on the timeline we contemplate in our strategies. Additionally, we
may retain certain liabilities following a divestment and could be held liable
for past use or for different liabilities than anticipated.

The term "project" as used in this report can refer to a variety of different
activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government
payment transparency reports.

Operational efficiency. An important component of ExxonMobil's competitive
performance, especially given the commodity-based nature of many of our
businesses, is our ability to operate efficiently, including our ability to
manage expenses and improve production yields on an ongoing basis. This
requires continuous management focus, including technology improvements, cost
control, productivity enhancements, regular reappraisal of our asset
portfolio, and the recruitment, development, and retention of high caliber
employees.

Research and development and technological change. To maintain our competitive
position, especially in light of the technological nature of our businesses
and the need for continuous efficiency improvement, ExxonMobil's technology,
research, and development organizations must be successful and able to adapt
to a changing market and policy environment, including developing technologies
to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To remain competitive we must also
continuously adapt and capture the benefits of new and emerging technologies,
including successfully applying advances in the ability to process very large
amounts of data to our businesses.

Safety, business controls, and environmental risk management. Our results
depend on management's ability to minimize the inherent risks of oil, gas, and
petrochemical operations, to effectively control our business activities, and
to minimize the potential for human error. We apply rigorous management
systems and continuous focus on workplace safety and avoiding spills or other
adverse environmental events. For example, we work to minimize spills through
a combined program of effective operations integrity management, ongoing
upgrades, key equipment replacements, and comprehensive inspection and
surveillance. Similarly, we are implementing cost-effective new technologies
and adopting new operating practices to reduce emissions, not only in response
to government requirements but also to address community priorities. We employ
a comprehensive enterprise risk management system to identify and manage risk
across our businesses. We also maintain a disciplined framework of internal
controls and apply a controls management system for monitoring compliance with
this framework. Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result
if we do not timely identify and mitigate applicable risks, or if our
management systems and controls do not function as intended.

5

* * *

  

Cybersecurity. ExxonMobil is regularly subject to attempted cybersecurity
disruptions from a variety of sources including state-sponsored actors.
ExxonMobil's defensive preparedness includes multi-layered technological
capabilities for prevention and detection of cybersecurity disruptions; non-
technological measures such as threat information sharing with governmental
and industry groups; annual internal training and awareness campaigns
including routine testing of employee awareness and an emphasis on resiliency,
including business response and recovery. If the measures we are taking to
protect against cybersecurity disruptions prove to be insufficient or if our
proprietary data is otherwise not protected, ExxonMobil, as well as our
customers, employees, or third parties, could be adversely affected. We are
also exposed to potential harm from cybersecurity events that may affect the
operations of third-parties, including our partners, suppliers, service
providers (including providers of cloud-hosting services for our data or
applications), and customers. Cybersecurity disruptions could cause physical
harm to people or the environment; damage or destroy assets; compromise
business systems; result in proprietary information being altered, lost, or
stolen; result in employee, customer, or third-party information being
compromised; or otherwise disrupt our business operations. We could incur
significant costs to remedy the effects of a major cybersecurity disruption in
addition to costs in connection with resulting regulatory actions, litigation,
or reputational harm.

Preparedness. Our operations may be disrupted by severe weather events,
natural disasters, human error, and similar events. For example, hurricanes
may damage our offshore production facilities or coastal refining and
petrochemical plants in vulnerable areas. Our facilities are designed,
engineered, constructed, and operated to withstand a variety of extreme
climatic and other conditions, with safety factors built in to cover a number
of uncertainties, including those associated with wave, wind, and current
intensity, marine ice flow patterns, permafrost stability, storm surge
magnitude, temperature extremes, extreme rainfall events, and earthquakes. Our
consideration of changing weather conditions and inclusion of safety factors
in design covers the engineering uncertainties that climate change and other
events may potentially introduce. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impacts
of these events depends in part upon the effectiveness of our robust facility
engineering, our rigorous disaster preparedness and response, and business
continuity planning.

Insurance limitations. The ability of the Corporation to insure against many
of the risks it faces as described in this Item 1A is limited by the
availability and cost of coverage, which may not be economic, as well as the
capacity of the applicable insurance markets, which may not be sufficient.

Competition. As noted in Item 1 above, the energy and petrochemical industries
are highly competitive. We face competition not only from other private firms,
but also from state-owned companies that are increasingly competing for
opportunities outside of their home countries and as partners with other
private firms. In some cases, these state-owned companies may pursue
opportunities in furtherance of strategic objectives of their government
owners, with less focus on financial returns than companies owned by private
shareholders, such as ExxonMobil. Technology and expertise provided by
industry service companies may also enhance the competitiveness of firms that
may not have the internal resources and capabilities of ExxonMobil or reduce
the need for resource-owning countries to partner with private-sector oil and
gas companies in order to monetize national resources. As described in more
detail above, our hydrocarbon-based energy products are also subject to
growing and, in many cases, government-supported competition from alternative
energy sources.

Reputation. Our reputation is an important corporate asset. Factors that could
have a negative impact on our reputation include an operating incident or
significant cybersecurity disruption; changes in consumer views concerning our
products; a perception by investors or others that the Corporation is making
insufficient progress with respect to our ambition to play a leading role in
the energy transition, or that pursuit of this ambition may result in
allocation of capital to investments with reduced returns; and other adverse
events such as those described in this Item 1A. Negative impacts on our
reputation could in turn make it more difficult for us to compete successfully
for new opportunities, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, obtain
financing, and attract talent, or they could reduce consumer demand for our
branded products. ExxonMobil's reputation may also be harmed by events which
negatively affect the image of our industry as a whole.

Projections, estimates, and descriptions of ExxonMobil's plans and objectives
included or incorporated in Items 1, 1A, 2, 7, and 7A of this report are
forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including project
completion dates, production rates, capital expenditures, costs, and business
plans could differ materially due to, among other things, the factors
discussed above and elsewhere in this report.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS|  
  
None.

6

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

|  
  
Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows:

1\. Disclosure of Reserves

A. Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves at Year-End 2022

The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved reserves in each
geographic area and by product type for consolidated subsidiaries and equity
companies. Natural gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six billion
cubic feet per one million barrels. The Corporation has reported proved
reserves on the basis of the average of the first-day-of-the-month price for
each month during the last 12-month period. No major discovery or other
favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2022 that would
cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Proved Reserves| | Crude  
Oil| Natural Gas  
Liquids| Bitumen| Synthetic  
Oil|  Natural  
Gas| Oil-Equivalent  
Total  
All Products  
| | (million bbls)| (million bbls)| (million bbls)| (million bbls)| (billion
cubic ft)| (million bbls)  
| | | | | | |  
Developed| |  |  |  |  |  |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| |  |  |  |  |  |  
United States| | 1,174 | | 514 | | -- | | -- | | 9,577 | | 3,284 |  
  
Canada/Other Americas (1)

| | 377 | | 1 | | 2,288 | | 248 | | 371 | | 2,976 |  
Europe| | 5 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 408 | | 73 |  
Africa| | 236 | | 23 | | -- | | -- | | 307 | | 310 |  
Asia| | 2,020 | | 47 | | -- | | -- | | 2,037 | | 2,407 |  
Australia/Oceania| | 38 | | 12 | | -- | | -- | | 3,162 | | 577 |  
Total Consolidated| | 3,850 | | 597 | | 2,288 | | 248 | | 15,862 | | 9,627 |  
| | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| |  |  |  |  |  |  
United States| | 119 | | 7 | | -- | | -- | | 127 | | 147 |  
Europe| | 2 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 326 | | 56 |  
Africa| | 5 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 663 | | 116 |  
Asia| | 235 | | 125 | | -- | | -- | | 5,020 | | 1,197 |  
Total Equity Company| | 361 | | 132 | | -- | | -- | | 6,136 | | 1,516 |  
Total Developed| | 4,211 | | 729 | | 2,288 | | 248 | | 21,998 | | 11,143 |  
| | | | | | |  
Undeveloped| |  |  |  |  |  |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| |  |  |  |  |  |  
United States| | 1,030 | | 538 | | -- | | -- | | 4,068 | | 2,246 |  
  
Canada/Other Americas (1)

| | 568 | | -- | | 132 | | 105 | | 337 | | 861 |  
Europe| | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 5 | | 1 |  
Africa| | 35 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 5 | | 36 |  
Asia| | 774 | | 39 | | -- | | -- | | 1,024 | | 983 |  
Australia/Oceania| | 28 | | 2 | | -- | | -- | | 2,846 | | 504 |  
Total Consolidated| | 2,435 | | 579 | | 132 | | 105 | | 8,285 | | 4,631 |  
| | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| |  |  |  |  |  |  
United States| | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- |  
Europe| | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 54 | | 9 |  
Africa| | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- |  
Asia| | 521 | | 223 | | -- | | -- | | 7,289 | | 1,959 |  
Total Equity Company| | 521 | | 223 | | -- | | -- | | 7,343 | | 1,968 |  
Total Undeveloped| | 2,956 | | 802 | | 132 | | 105 | | 15,628 | | 6,599 |  
| | | | | | |  
Total Proved Reserves| | 7,167 | | 1,531 | | 2,420 | | 353 | | 37,626 | |
17,742 |  
| | | | | | |  
  
(1) Other Americas includes proved developed reserves of 243 million barrels
of crude oil and 191 billion cubic feet of natural gas, as well as proved
undeveloped reserves of 549 million barrels of crude oil and 311 billion cubic
feet of natural gas.  
  
7

* * *

  

In the preceding reserves information, consolidated subsidiary and equity
company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation operates
its business with the same view of equity company reserves as it has for
reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.

The Corporation anticipates several projects will come online over the next
few years providing additional production capacity. However, actual volumes
will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups;
operational outages; reservoir performance; regulatory changes; the impact of
fiscal and commercial terms; asset sales; weather events; price effects on
production sharing contracts; changes in the amount and timing of capital
investments that may vary depending on the oil and gas price environment;
international trade patterns and relations; and other factors described in
Item 1A. Risk Factors.

The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of
reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical
evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis of well
and reservoir information such as flow rates and reservoir pressures.
Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for projects which
have received significant funding commitments by management toward the
development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain
that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be
affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects,
reservoir performance, regulatory approvals, government policies, consumer
preferences, and significant changes in crude oil and natural gas price
levels. In addition, proved reserves could be affected by an extended period
of low prices which could reduce the level of the Corporation's capital
spending and also impact our partners' capacity to fund their share of joint
projects.

  

B. Technologies Used in Establishing Proved Reserves Additions in 2022

Additions to ExxonMobil's proved reserves in 2022 were based on estimates
generated through the integration of available and appropriate geological,
engineering and production data, utilizing well-established technologies that
have been demonstrated in the field to yield repeatable and consistent
results.

Data used in these integrated assessments included information obtained
directly from the subsurface via wellbores, such as well logs, reservoir core
samples, fluid samples, static and dynamic pressure information, production
test data, and surveillance and performance information. The data utilized
also included subsurface information obtained through indirect measurements
including high-quality 3‑D and 4‑D seismic data, calibrated with available
well control information. The tools used to interpret the data included
seismic processing software, reservoir modeling and simulation software, and
data analysis packages.

In some circumstances, where appropriate analog reservoirs were available,
reservoir parameters from these analogs were used to increase the quality of
and confidence in the reserves estimates.

  

C. Qualifications of Reserves Technical Oversight Group and Internal Controls
over Proved Reserves

ExxonMobil has a dedicated Global Reserves and Resources group that provides
technical oversight and is separate from the operating organization. Primary
responsibilities of this group include oversight of the reserves estimation
process for compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and
regulations, review of annual changes in reserves estimates, and the reporting
of ExxonMobil's proved reserves. This group also maintains the official
company reserves estimates for ExxonMobil's proved reserves of crude oil,
natural gas liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil, and natural gas. In addition, the
group provides training to personnel involved in the reserves estimation and
reporting process within ExxonMobil and its affiliates. The Global Reserves
and Resources Manager has more than 30 years of experience in reservoir
engineering and reserves assessment, has a degree in Engineering, and served
on the Oil and Gas Reserves Committee of the Society of Petroleum Engineers
(SPE). The group is staffed with individuals that have an average of more than
15 years of technical experience in the petroleum industry, including
expertise in the classification and categorization of reserves under SEC
guidelines. This group includes individuals who hold degrees in either
Engineering or Geology.

The Global Reserves and Resources group maintains a central database
containing the official company reserves estimates. Appropriate controls,
including limitations on database access and update capabilities, are in place
to ensure data integrity within this central database. An annual review of the
system's controls is performed by internal audit. Key components of the
reserves estimation process include technical evaluations, commercial and
market assessments, analysis of well and field performance, and long-standing
approval guidelines. No changes may be made to the reserves estimates in the
central database, including additions of any new initial reserves estimates or
subsequent revisions, unless these changes have been thoroughly reviewed and
evaluated by duly authorized geoscience and engineering professionals within
the operating organization. In addition, changes to reserves estimates that
exceed certain thresholds require further review and approval by the
appropriate level of management within the operating organization before the
changes may be made in the central database. Endorsement by the Global
Reserves and Resources group for all proved reserves changes is a mandatory
component of this review process. After all changes are made, reviews are held
with senior management for final endorsement.

8

* * *

  

2\. Proved Undeveloped Reserves

At year-end 2022, approximately 6.6 billion oil-equivalent barrels (GOEB) of
ExxonMobil's proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. This
represents 37 percent of the 17.7 GOEB reported in proved reserves. This
compares to 6.3 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves reported at the end of
2021. During the year, ExxonMobil conducted development activities that
resulted in the transfer of approximately 1.0 GOEB from proved undeveloped to
proved developed reserves by year end. The largest transfers were related to
development activities in the United States, Mozambique, Guyana, and the
United Arab Emirates. During 2022, extensions and discoveries, primarily in
the United States and Guyana, resulted in the addition of approximately 1.4
GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves, along with an increase of approximately
0.7 GOEB due to purchases in Asia. Also, the Corporation reclassified
approximately 0.8 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves which no longer met the
SEC definition of proved reserves, primarily in the United States and Canada.

Overall, investments of $12.1 billion were made by the Corporation during 2022
to progress the development of reported proved undeveloped reserves, including
$12.0 billion for oil and gas producing activities, along with additional
investments for other non-oil and gas producing activities such as the
construction of support infrastructure and other related facilities. These
investments represented 71 percent of the $17.0 billion in total reported
Upstream capital and exploration expenditures.

One of ExxonMobil's requirements for reporting proved reserves is that
management has made significant funding commitments toward the development of
the reserves. ExxonMobil has a disciplined investment strategy and many major
fields require long lead-time in order to be developed. Development projects
typically take several years from the time of recording proved undeveloped
reserves to the start of production and can exceed five years for large and
complex projects. Proved undeveloped reserves in Australia, Kazakhstan, the
United States, and the United Arab Emirates have remained undeveloped for five
years or more primarily due to constraints on the capacity of infrastructure,
as well as the time required to complete development for very large projects.
The Corporation is reasonably certain that these proved reserves will be
produced; however, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number
of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir
performance, regulatory approvals, government policies, consumer preferences,
the pace of co-venturer/government funding, changes in the amount and timing
of capital investments, and significant changes in crude oil and natural gas
price levels. Of the proved undeveloped reserves that have been reported for
five or more years, over 80 percent are contained in the aforementioned
countries. In Australia, proved undeveloped reserves are associated with
future compression for the Gorgon Jansz LNG project. In Kazakhstan, the proved
undeveloped reserves are related to the remainder of the Tengizchevroil joint
venture development that includes a production license in the Tengiz - Korolev
field complex. The Tengizchevroil joint venture is producing, and proved
undeveloped reserves will continue to move to proved developed as approved
development phases progress. In the United Arab Emirates, proved undeveloped
reserves are associated with an approved development plan and continued
drilling investment for the producing Upper Zakum field.

9

* * *

  

3\. Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs

A. Oil and Gas Production

The table below summarizes production by final product sold and by geographic
area for the last three years.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(thousands of barrels daily)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| Crude Oil| NGL| | Crude Oil| NGL| | Crude Oil| NGL  
Crude oil and natural gas liquids production| | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| |  |  | |  |  | |  |  
United States| | 523 | | 211 | | | 482 | | 195 | | | 481 | | 154 |  
  
Canada/Other Americas (1)

| | 196 | | 2 | | | 130 | | 3 | | | 121 | | 5 |  
Europe| | 2 | | -- | | | 16 | | 3 | | | 22 | | 5 |  
Africa| | 233 | | 5 | | | 241 | | 7 | | | 301 | | 11 |  
Asia| | 407 | | 23 | | | 407 | | 21 | | | 449 | | 23 |  
Australia/Oceania| | 27 | | 16 | | | 28 | | 15 | | | 29 | | 15 |  
Total Consolidated Subsidiaries| | 1,388 | | 257 | | | 1,304 | | 244 | | |
1,403 | | 213 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| |  |  | |  |  | |  |  
United States| | 41 | | 1 | | | 43 | | 1 | | | 49 | | 1 |  
Europe| | 2 | | -- | | | 3 | | -- | | | 3 | | -- |  
Africa| | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- |  
Asia| | 216 | | 59 | | | 207 | | 60 | | | 208 | | 62 |  
Total Equity Companies| | 259 | | 60 | | | 253 | | 61 | | | 260 | | 63 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Total crude oil and natural gas liquids production| | 1,647 | | 317 | | |
1,557 | | 305 | | | 1,663 | | 276 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Bitumen production| |  |  | | |  | |  |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| |  |  | |  |  | |  |  
Canada/Other Americas| | 327 | | | | 365 | | | | 342 | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Synthetic oil production| | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| | | | | | | | |  
Canada/Other Americas| | 63 | | | | 62 | | | | 68 | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Total liquids production| | 2,354 | | | | 2,289 | | | | 2,349 | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
(millions of cubic feet daily)| | | | | | | | |  
Natural gas production available for sale| |  |  | |  |  | |  |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| |  |  | |  |  | |  |  
United States| | 2,531 | | | | 2,724 | | | | 2,668 | |  
  
Canada/Other Americas (1)

| | 148 | | | | 195 | | | | 277 | |  
Europe| | 306 | | | | 377 | | | | 447 | |  
Africa| | 64 | | | | 43 | | | | 9 | |  
Asia| | 779 | | | | 807 | | | | 872 | |  
Australia/Oceania| | 1,440 | | | | 1,280 | | | | 1,219 | |  
Total Consolidated Subsidiaries| | 5,268 | | | | 5,426 | | | | 5,492 | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | | | | | |  
United States| | 20 | | | | 22 | | | | 23 | |  
Europe| | 361 | | | | 431 | | | | 342 | |  
Africa| | 7 | | | | -- | | | | -- | |  
Asia| | 2,639 | | | | 2,658 | | | | 2,614 | |  
Total Equity Companies| | 3,027 | | | | 3,111 | | | | 2,979 | |  
Total natural gas production available for sale| | 8,295 | | | | 8,537 | | | |
8,471 | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
(thousands of oil-equivalent barrels daily)| | | | | | | | |  
Oil-equivalent production| | 3,737 | | | | 3,712 | | | | 3,761 | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Other Americas includes crude oil production for 2022, 2021, and 2020 of
120 thousand, 48 thousand, and 29 thousand barrels daily, respectively; and
natural gas production available for sale for 2022, 2021, and 2020 of 45
million, 36 million, and 45 million cubic feet daily, respectively.  
  
10

* * *

  

B. Production Prices and Production Costs

The table below summarizes average production prices and average production
costs by geographic area and by product type for the last three years.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(dollars per unit)| United  
States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/  
Oceania| | Total  
  
2022

|  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Average production prices|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Crude oil, per barrel| 93.60 | | | 97.05 | | | 91.32 | | | 103.45 | | | 94.94
| | | 94.43 | | | 96.16 |  
NGL, per barrel| 38.54 | | | 45.22 | | | 71.43 | | | 57.83 | | | 35.77 | | |
46.91 | | | 39.37 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 5.37 | | | 4.40 | | | 21.17 | | | 2.57 |
| | 2.60 | | | 11.47 | | | 7.48 |  
Bitumen, per barrel| -- | | | 64.12 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
64.12 |  
Synthetic oil, per barrel| -- | | | 96.08 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | 96.08 |  
Average production costs, per oil-equivalent barrel - total| 9.40 | | | 24.63
| | | 23.77 | | | 21.68 | | | 7.31 | | | 4.97 | | | 13.09 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - bitumen| -- | | | 29.90 | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 29.90 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - synthetic oil| -- | | | 51.52 | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 51.52 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Average production prices| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Crude oil, per barrel| 94.58 | | | -- | | | 90.91 | | | 60.00 | | | 94.32 | |
| -- | | | 94.32 |  
NGL, per barrel| 39.53 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 59.52 | | | -- | | |
59.05 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 5.49 | | | -- | | | 21.10 | | | 2.72 | |
| 13.08 | | | -- | | | 13.97 |  
Average production costs, per oil-equivalent barrel - total| 40.42 | | | -- |
| | 26.86 | | | 42.24 | | | 1.45 | | | -- | | | 5.57 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Average production prices| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Crude oil, per barrel| 93.67 | | | 97.05 | | | 91.15 | | | 103.42 | | | 94.73
| | | 94.43 | | | 95.88 |  
NGL, per barrel| 38.55 | | | 45.22 | | | 71.43 | | | 57.83 | | | 52.85 | | |
46.91 | | | 43.09 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 5.37 | | | 4.40 | | | 21.14 | | | 2.59 |
| | 10.70 | | | 11.47 | | | 9.85 |  
Bitumen, per barrel| -- | | | 64.12 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
64.12 |  
Synthetic oil, per barrel| -- | | | 96.08 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | 96.08 |  
Average production costs, per oil-equivalent barrel - total| 10.57 | | | 24.63
| | | 25.43 | | | 21.79 | | | 4.02 | | | 4.97 | | | 11.43 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - bitumen| -- | | | 29.90 | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 29.90 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - synthetic oil| -- | | | 51.52 | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 51.52 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
2021

|  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Average production prices| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Crude oil, per barrel| 65.03 | | | 68.56 | | | 66.20 | | | 70.21 | | | 67.28 |
| | 69.00 | | | 67.14 |  
NGL, per barrel| 32.24 | | | 30.51 | | | 42.31 | | | 54.57 | | | 32.62 | | |
43.07 | | | 33.65 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 3.02 | | | 2.92 | | | 11.83 | | | 1.67 |
| | 2.11 | | | 6.64 | | | 4.33 |  
Bitumen, per barrel| -- | | | 44.26 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
44.26 |  
Synthetic oil, per barrel| -- | | | 64.73 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | 64.73 |  
Average production costs, per oil-equivalent barrel - total| 8.33 | | | 22.47
| | | 25.31 | | | 18.92 | | | 7.16 | | | 5.14 | | | 12.15 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - bitumen| -- | | | 22.69 | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 22.69 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - synthetic oil| -- | | | 48.87 | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 48.87 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Average production prices| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Crude oil, per barrel| 67.06 | | | -- | | | 62.60 | | | -- | | | 65.85 | | |
-- | | | 66.01 |  
NGL, per barrel| 29.94 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 52.14 | | | -- | | |
51.64 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 3.11 | | | -- | | | 8.19 | | | -- | | |
6.54 | | | -- | | | 6.74 |  
Average production costs, per oil-equivalent barrel - total| 30.51 | | | -- |
| | 38.82 | | | -- | | | 1.59 | | | -- | | | 6.67 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Average production prices| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Crude oil, per barrel| 65.20 | | | 68.56 | | | 65.54 | | | 70.21 | | | 66.80 |
| | 69.00 | | | 66.96 |  
NGL, per barrel| 32.23 | | | 30.51 | | | 42.31 | | | 54.57 | | | 47.10 | | |
43.07 | | | 37.27 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 3.02 | | | 2.92 | | | 9.89 | | | 1.67 |
| | 5.50 | | | 6.64 | | | 5.21 |  
Bitumen, per barrel| -- | | | 44.26 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
44.26 |  
Synthetic oil, per barrel| -- | | | 64.73 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | 64.73 |  
Average production costs, per oil-equivalent barrel - total| 9.24 | | | 22.47
| | | 31.79 | | | 19.04 | | | 4.06 | | | 5.14 | | | 10.92 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - bitumen| -- | | | 22.69 | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 22.69 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - synthetic oil| -- | | | 48.87 | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 48.87 |  
  
11

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(dollars per unit)| United  
States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/  
Oceania| | Total  
  
2020

|  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Average production prices|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Crude oil, per barrel| 34.97 | | | 37.26 | | | 41.39 | | | 42.27 | | | 39.39 |
| | 36.67 | | | 38.31 |  
NGL, per barrel| 13.83 | | | 10.34 | | | 20.11 | | | 21.32 | | | 21.37 | | |
27.92 | | | 16.05 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 0.98 | | | 1.56 | | | 3.13 | | | 1.24 |
| | 1.49 | | | 4.34 | | | 2.01 |  
Bitumen, per barrel| -- | | | 17.71 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
17.71 |  
Synthetic oil, per barrel| -- | | | 37.32 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | 37.32 |  
Average production costs, per oil-equivalent barrel - total| 9.82 | | | 18.40
| | | 21.22 | | | 16.67 | | | 6.50 | | | 5.35 | | | 11.57 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - bitumen| -- | | | 19.22 | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 19.22 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - synthetic oil| -- | | | 33.61 | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 33.61 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Average production prices| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Crude oil, per barrel| 39.10 | | | -- | | | 38.95 | | | -- | | | 35.18 | | |
-- | | | 35.97 |  
NGL, per barrel| 11.05 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 30.02 | | | -- | | |
29.58 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 1.19 | | | -- | | | 3.85 | | | -- | | |
3.14 | | | -- | | | 3.20 |  
Average production costs, per oil-equivalent barrel - total| 25.13 | | | -- |
| | 30.74 | | | -- | | | 1.63 | | | -- | | | 5.34 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Average production prices| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Crude oil, per barrel| 35.35 | | | 37.26 | | | 41.11 | | | 42.27 | | | 38.07 |
| | 36.67 | | | 37.95 |  
NGL, per barrel| 13.80 | | | 10.34 | | | 20.11 | | | 21.32 | | | 27.65 | | |
27.92 | | | 19.16 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 0.98 | | | 1.56 | | | 3.44 | | | 1.24 |
| | 2.72 | | | 4.34 | | | 2.43 |  
Bitumen, per barrel| -- | | | 17.71 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
17.71 |  
Synthetic oil, per barrel| -- | | | 37.32 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | 37.32 |  
Average production costs, per oil-equivalent barrel - total| 10.55 | | | 18.40
| | | 24.76 | | | 16.73 | | | 3.91 | | | 5.35 | | | 10.21 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - bitumen| -- | | | 19.22 | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 19.22 |  
Average production costs, per barrel - synthetic oil| -- | | | 33.61 | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 33.61 |  
  
  

Average production prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from
the Corporation's own production as the divisor. Average production costs have
been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor. The volumes
of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this
computation are shown in the oil and gas production table in section 3.A. The
volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production volumes of
natural gas available for sale and are also shown in section 3.A. The natural
gas available for sale volumes are different from those shown in the reserves
table in the "Oil and Gas Reserves" part of the "Supplemental Information on
Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities" portion of the Financial
Section of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. Natural gas is
converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one
thousand barrels.

12

* * *

  

4\. Drilling and Other Exploratory and Development Activities

A. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
Net Productive Exploratory Wells Drilled|  | |  | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  
United States| 1 | | | 1 | | | 4 |  
Canada/Other Americas| 3 | | | 5 | | | 2 |  
Europe| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Africa| -- | | | -- | | | 1 |  
Asia| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Australia/Oceania| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total Consolidated Subsidiaries| 4 | | | 6 | | | 7 |  
| | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | |  
United States| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Europe| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Africa| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Asia| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total Equity Companies| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total productive exploratory wells drilled| 4 | | | 6 | | | 7 |  
| | | | |  
Net Dry Exploratory Wells Drilled| | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| | | | |  
United States| -- | | | 1 | | | -- |  
Canada/Other Americas| 4 | | | 3 | | | 1 |  
Europe| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Africa| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Asia| -- | | | -- | | | 1 |  
Australia/Oceania| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total Consolidated Subsidiaries| 4 | | | 4 | | | 2 |  
| | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | |  
United States| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Europe| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Africa| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Asia| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total Equity Companies| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total dry exploratory wells drilled| 4 | | | 4 | | | 2 |  
  
13

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
Net Productive Development Wells Drilled|  | |  | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  
United States| 473 | | | 433 | | | 412 |  
Canada/Other Americas| 33 | | | 28 | | | 36 |  
Europe| -- | | | 1 | | | 2 |  
Africa| 3 | | | 1 | | | 2 |  
Asia| 5 | | | 4 | | | 15 |  
Australia/Oceania| -- | | | -- | | | 4 |  
Total Consolidated Subsidiaries| 514 | | | 467 | | | 471 |  
| | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | |  
United States| 49 | | | 13 | | | 60 |  
Europe| -- | | | 1 | | | 1 |  
Africa| -- | | | 1 | | | -- |  
Asia| 10 | | | 5 | | | 5 |  
Total Equity Companies| 59 | | | 20 | | | 66 |  
Total productive development wells drilled| 573 | | | 487 | | | 537 |  
| | | | |  
Net Dry Development Wells Drilled| | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| | | | |  
United States| -- | | | 4 | | | 6 |  
Canada/Other Americas| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Europe| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Africa| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Asia| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Australia/Oceania| -- | | | -- | | | 1 |  
Total Consolidated Subsidiaries| -- | | | 4 | | | 7 |  
| | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | |  
United States| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Europe| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Africa| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Asia| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total Equity Companies| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total dry development wells drilled| -- | | | 4 | | | 7 |  
| | | | |  
Total number of net wells drilled| 581 | | | 501 | | | 553 |  
  
14

* * *

  

B. Exploratory and Development Activities Regarding Oil and Gas Resources
Extracted by Mining Technologies

Syncrude Operations. Syncrude is a joint venture established to recover
shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the
crude bitumen, and then upgrade it to produce a high-quality, light (32
degrees API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of
a 25 percent interest in the joint venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6
percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited. In 2022, the company's share of net
production of synthetic crude oil was about 63 thousand barrels per day and
share of net acreage was about 55 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil sands
deposit.

Kearl Operations. Kearl is a joint venture established to recover shallow
deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the crude
bitumen. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96 percent interest in the joint
venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds the other 29.04 percent. Exxon
Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited and a
100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada Properties. Kearl is comprised of
six oil sands leases covering about 49 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil
sands deposit.

Kearl is located approximately 40 miles north of Fort McMurray, Alberta,
Canada. Bitumen is extracted from oil sands and processed through bitumen
extraction and froth treatment trains. The product, a blend of bitumen and
diluent, is shipped to our refineries and to other third parties. Diluent is
natural gas condensate or other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen
to facilitate transportation by pipeline and rail. During 2022, average net
production at Kearl was about 221 thousand barrels per day.

5\. Present Activities

A. Wells Drilling

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Wells Drilling|

Year-End 2022

| |

Year-End 2021  
  
Gross| Net| | Gross| Net  
|  |  | |  |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  |  | |  |  
United States| 804 | | 472 | | | 1,059 | | 588 |  
Canada/Other Americas| 54 | | 40 | | | 44 | | 33 |  
Europe| 2 | | 1 | | | 2 | | 1 |  
Africa| 10 | | 2 | | | 11 | | 2 |  
Asia| 18 | | 5 | | | 11 | | 3 |  
Australia/Oceania| 1 | | -- | | | -- | | -- |  
Total Consolidated Subsidiaries| 889 | | 520 | | | 1,127 | | 627 |  
| | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | |  
United States| 13 | | 2 | | | 12 | | -- |  
Europe| -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- |  
Africa| -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- |  
Asia| 8 | | 3 | | | 2 | | 1 |  
Total Equity Companies| 21 | | 5 | | | 14 | | 1 |  
Total gross and net wells drilling| 910 | | 525 | | | 1,141 | | 628 |  
  
15

* * *

  

B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| United States| | | |  
  
ExxonMobil's year-end 2022 acreage holdings totaled 9.5 million net acres, of
which 0.2 million net acres were offshore. In 2022, ExxonMobil relinquished 1
million net acres, of which 0.2 million were offshore. ExxonMobil was active
in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska.
Development activities continued on the Golden Pass liquefied natural gas
export project.

During the year, a total of 519.9 net exploratory and development wells were
completed in the inland lower 48 states. Development activities focused on
liquids-rich opportunities in the onshore U.S., primarily in the Permian Basin
of West Texas and New Mexico.

ExxonMobil's net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2022 was 0.1
million acres. A total of 0.9 net development wells were completed during the
year.

Participation in Alaska production and development continued with a total of
2.6 net development wells completed.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Canada / Other Americas| | | |  
  
Canada

Oil and Gas Operations: ExxonMobil's year-end 2022 acreage holdings totaled
4.3 million net acres, of which 2.5 million net acres were offshore. In 2022,
ExxonMobil relinquished 2.5 million net acres, of which 1.5 million were
offshore. A total of 1.3 net exploratory and development wells were completed
during the year.

In Situ Bitumen Operations: ExxonMobil's year-end 2022 in situ bitumen acreage
holdings totaled 0.5 million net onshore acres. A total of 24 net development
wells at Cold Lake were completed during the year.

Argentina

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 2.9 million acres at year-end 2022, of which
2.6 million net acres were offshore. During the year, a total of 5.4 net
development wells were completed.

Brazil

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 2.6 million offshore acres at year-end 2022.
During the year, a total of 1.5 net exploratory wells were completed.
Development activities continued on the Bacalhau Phase 1 project.

Guyana

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 4.6 million offshore acres at year-end 2022.
During the year, a total of 6 net exploratory and development wells were
completed. The Liza Phase 2 Unity floating production, storage and offloading
vessel commenced operations, and development activities continued on the
Payara project. The Yellowtail project was funded in 2022.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Europe| | | |  
  
Germany

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 1.4 million onshore acres at year-end 2022.

Netherlands

ExxonMobil's net interest in licenses totaled 1.4 million acres at year-end
2022, of which 0.4 million acres were offshore. During the year, a total of
0.2 net development well was completed. In 2022, the Dutch Government further
reduced Groningen gas extraction and continues to evaluate the timing for
cessation of production.

United Kingdom

ExxonMobil's net interest in licenses totaled 0.1 million offshore acres at
year-end 2022.

  

  

16

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Africa| | | |  
  
Angola

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 3 million acres at year-end 2022, of which
2.9 million net acres were offshore. During the year, a total of 3.3 net
exploratory and development wells were completed.

Equatorial Guinea

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.1 million offshore acres at year-end 2022.

Mozambique

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.7 million offshore acres at year-end 2022.
In 2022, ExxonMobil relinquished 1 million net offshore acres outside of the
core Area 4 development. The Coral South Floating LNG development began
production in October 2022.

Nigeria

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.9 million offshore acres at year-end 2022.
During the year, a total of 0.4 net exploratory and development wells were
completed.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Asia| | | |  
  
Azerbaijan

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 7 thousand offshore acres at year-end 2022.
During the year, a total of 1 net development wells were completed.

Indonesia

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.1 million onshore acres at year-end 2022.

Iraq

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 36 thousand onshore acres at year-end 2022.
During the year, a total of 0.3 net development well was completed. Oil field
rehabilitation activities continued during 2022 and across the life of this
project will include drilling of new wells; working over of existing wells;
and optimization, debottlenecking and expansion of facilities.

Kazakhstan

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.3 million acres at year-end 2022, of which
0.2 million net acres were offshore. During the year, a total of 2.3 net
development wells were completed. Development activities continued on the
Tengiz Expansion project.

Malaysia

ExxonMobil's interests in production sharing contracts covered 0.2 million net
offshore acres at year-end 2022.

Qatar

Through our joint ventures with QatarEnergy, ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled
80 thousand offshore acres at year-end 2022. ExxonMobil participated in 52.3
million tonnes per year gross liquefied natural gas capacity and 3.4 billion
cubic feet per day of flowing gas capacity at year end. During the year, a
total of 8.2 net development wells were completed. The North Field Production
Sustainment Compression project was funded in 2022. ExxonMobil also announced
participation in Qatar's North Field East project via the Qatar Liquefied Gas
Company Limited (QG7) venture, representing 18.5 thousand net acres and 8
million tonnes per year gross liquefied natural gas capacity expected to begin
in 2026.

Russia

Effective October 14, 2022, the Russian government unilaterally terminated the
Corporation's interests in Sakhalin, transferring operations to a Russian
operator.

Refer to "Note 2: Russia" of the Financial Section of this report for
additional information.

Thailand

ExxonMobil's net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions totaled 16 thousand
acres at year-end 2022. During the year, a total of 0.1 net development well
was completed.

  

17

* * *

  

United Arab Emirates

ExxonMobil's net acreage in the Abu Dhabi offshore Upper Zakum oil concession
was 81 thousand acres at year-end 2022. During the year, a total of 2.8 net
development wells were completed. Development activities continued on the
Upper Zakum 1 MBD Sustainment project.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Australia / Oceania| | | |  
  
Australia

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 1.2 million offshore acres and 10 thousand
onshore acres at year-end 2022. In 2022, 0.6 million net offshore acres were
relinquished.

The co-venturer-operated Gorgon Jansz liquefied natural gas (LNG) development
consists of a subsea infrastructure for offshore production and transportation
of the gas, a 15.6 million tonnes per year LNG facility and a 280 million
cubic feet per day domestic gas plant located on Barrow Island, Western
Australia. Development activities continued on the Gorgon Stage 2 project and
Jansz Io Compression project during the year.

Papua New Guinea

ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 2.1 million onshore acres at year-end 2022.
In 2022, ExxonMobil relinquished 1.2 million net offshore acres. The Papua New
Guinea (PNG) liquefied natural gas integrated development includes gas
production and processing facilities in the PNG Highlands, onshore and
offshore pipelines, and a 6.9 million tonnes per year liquefied natural gas
facility near Port Moresby.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Worldwide Exploration| | | |  
  
At year-end 2022, exploration activities were under way in several areas in
which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and thus are not
included above. A total of 18.8 million net acres were held at year-end 2022
and 1.2 net exploratory wells were completed during the year in these
countries.

  

6\. Delivery Commitments

ExxonMobil sells crude oil and natural gas from its producing operations under
a variety of contractual obligations, some of which may specify the delivery
of a fixed and determinable quantity for periods longer than one year.
ExxonMobil also enters into natural gas sales contracts where the source of
the natural gas used to fulfill the contract can be a combination of our own
production and the spot market. Worldwide, we are contractually committed to
deliver approximately 36 million barrels of oil and 2.3 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas for the period from 2023 through 2025. We expect to fulfill the
majority of these delivery commitments with production from our proved
developed reserves. Any remaining commitments will be fulfilled with
production from our proved undeveloped reserves and purchases on the open
market as necessary.

18

* * *

  

7\. Oil and Gas Properties, Wells, Operations and Acreage

A. Gross and Net Productive Wells

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Gross and Net Productive Wells|

Year-End 2022

| |

Year-End 2021  
  
Oil| Gas| | Oil| Gas  
| Gross| | Net| Gross| | Net| | Gross| | Net| Gross| | Net  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  |  | |  | |  | |  |  | |  
United States| 19,006 | | | 7,576 | | 11,495 | | | 7,516 | | | 19,401 | | |
7,566 | | 18,670 | | | 10,773 |  
Canada/Other Americas| 4,394 | | | 4,310 | | 2,903 | | | 1,033 | | | 4,656 | |
| 4,548 | | 3,209 | | | 1,247 |  
Europe| 536 | | | 127 | | 433 | | | 205 | | | 439 | | | 116 | | 441 | | | 207
|  
Africa| 590 | | | 191 | | 24 | | | 10 | | | 1,102 | | | 416 | | 24 | | | 10 |  
Asia| 999 | | | 318 | | 147 | | | 86 | | | 1,038 | | | 333 | | 137 | | | 80 |  
Australia/Oceania| 473 | | | 89 | | 92 | | | 38 | | | 522 | | | 99 | | 94 | |
| 40 |  
Total Consolidated Subsidiaries| 25,998 | | | 12,611 | | 15,094 | | | 8,888 |
| | 27,158 | | | 13,078 | | 22,575 | | | 12,357 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
United States| 12,068 | | | 4,777 | | 3,341 | | | 331 | | | 12,108 | | | 4,793
| | 3,355 | | | 333 |  
Europe| 57 | | | 20 | | 482 | | | 150 | | | 57 | | | 20 | | 547 | | | 171 |  
Africa| -- | | | -- | | 6 | | | 2 | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | -- |  
Asia| 233 | | | 58 | | 145 | | | 33 | | | 225 | | | 56 | | 168 | | | 35 |  
Total Equity Companies| 12,358 | | | 4,855 | | 3,974 | | | 516 | | | 12,390 |
| | 4,869 | | 4,070 | | | 539 |  
Total gross and net productive wells| 38,356 | | | 17,466 | | 19,068 | | |
9,404 | | | 39,548 | | | 17,947 | | 26,645 | | | 12,896 |  
  
There were 19,571 gross and 17,165 net operated wells at year-end 2022 and
23,645 gross and 20,528 net operated wells at year-end 2021. The number of
wells with multiple completions was 1,010 gross in 2022 and 1,082 gross in
2021.

  

19

* * *

  

B. Gross and Net Developed Acreage

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Gross and Net Developed Acreage

(thousands of acres)

|

Year-End 2022

| |

Year-End 2021  
  
Gross| | Net| | Gross| | Net  
|  | |  | |  | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  | |  
United States| 11,022 | | | 6,681 | | | 12,180 | | | 7,503 |  
  
Canada/Other Americas (1)

| 2,113 | | | 1,509 | | | 2,905 | | | 2,075 |  
  
Europe (2)

| 1,238 | | | 580 | | | 1,234 | | | 580 |  
Africa| 2,186 | | | 736 | | | 2,409 | | | 818 |  
Asia| 1,582 | | | 462 | | | 1,929 | | | 557 |  
Australia/Oceania| 3,242 | | | 1,067 | | | 3,242 | | | 1,067 |  
Total Consolidated Subsidiaries| 21,383 | | | 11,035 | | | 23,899 | | | 12,600
|  
| | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | | | |  
United States| 702 | | | 166 | | | 687 | | | 163 |  
Europe| 3,646 | | | 1,117 | | | 3,646 | | | 1,116 |  
Africa| 178 | | | 44 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Asia| 665 | | | 157 | | | 701 | | | 160 |  
Total Equity Companies| 5,191 | | | 1,484 | | | 5,034 | | | 1,439 |  
Total gross and net developed acreage| 26,574 | | | 12,519 | | | 28,933 | | |
14,039 |  
| | | | | | |  
  
(1) Includes developed acreage in Other Americas of 490 gross and 311 net
thousands of acres for 2022 and 2021.

(2) Year-end 2021 developed acreage in Europe was restated for gross and net.  
  
Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many
instances, both are produced from the same acreage.

C. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage

(thousands of acres)

|

Year-End 2022

| |

Year-End 2021  
  
Gross| | Net| | Gross| | Net  
|  | |  | |  | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  | |  
United States| 6,455 | | | 2,587 | | | 6,751 | | | 2,807 |  
  
Canada/Other Americas (1)

| 32,441 | | | 15,838 | | | 36,764 | | | 18,246 |  
  
Europe (2)

| 12,592 | | | 8,231 | | | 14,811 | | | 6,163 |  
Africa| 20,620 | | | 13,113 | | | 23,797 | | | 15,186 |  
Asia| 766 | | | 227 | | | 766 | | | 227 |  
Australia/Oceania| 4,811 | | | 2,309 | | | 8,638 | | | 4,112 |  
Total Consolidated Subsidiaries| 77,685 | | | 42,305 | | | 91,527 | | | 46,741
|  
| | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | | | |  
United States| 150 | | | 61 | | | 159 | | | 64 |  
Europe| 482 | | | 131 | | | 596 | | | 139 |  
Africa| 418 | | | 104 | | | 596 | | | 149 |  
Asia| 296 | | | 19 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total Equity Companies| 1,346 | | | 315 | | | 1,351 | | | 352 |  
Total gross and net undeveloped acreage| 79,031 | | | 42,620 | | | 92,878 | |
| 47,093 |  
| | | | | | |  
  
(1) Includes undeveloped acreage in Other Americas of 25,096 gross and 11,977
net thousands of acres for 2022 and 26,084 gross and 12,471 net thousands of
acres for 2021.

(2) Year-end 2021 undeveloped acreage in Europe was restated for gross and
net.  
  
ExxonMobil's investment in developed and undeveloped acreage is comprised of
numerous concessions, blocks, and leases. The terms and conditions under which
the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production rights to the acreage
are property-specific, contractually defined, and vary significantly from
property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure that the
exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before expiration. In
some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage in advance of
the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and
there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time
may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has generally been
successful in obtaining extensions. The scheduled expiration of leases and
concessions for undeveloped acreage over the next three years is not expected
to have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.

20

* * *

  

D. Summary of Acreage Terms

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| United States| | | |  
  
Oil and gas exploration and production rights are acquired from mineral
interest owners through a lease. Mineral interest owners include the Federal
and State governments, as well as private mineral interest owners. Leases
typically have an exploration period ranging from one to 10 years, and a
production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases.
Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held beyond its exploration term
even if production has not commenced. In some instances regarding private
property, a "fee interest" is acquired where the underlying mineral interests
are owned outright.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Canada / Other Americas| | | |  
  
Canada

Exploration licenses or leases in onshore areas are acquired for varying
periods of time with renewals or extensions possible. These licenses or leases
entitle the holder to continue existing licenses or leases upon completing
specified work. In general, these license and lease agreements are held as
long as there is proven production capability on the licenses and leases.
Exploration licenses in offshore eastern Canada and the Beaufort Sea are held
by work commitments of various amounts and rentals. They are valid for a term
of nine years. Offshore production licenses are valid for 25 years, with
rights of extension for continued production. Significant discovery licenses
in the offshore relating to currently undeveloped discoveries do not have a
definite term.

Argentina

The Federal Hydrocarbon Law was amended in 2014. Pursuant to the amended law,
the production term for an onshore unconventional concession is 35 years and
25 years for a conventional concession, with unlimited 10-year extensions
possible once a field has been developed. In 2019, the government granted
three offshore exploration licenses, with terms of eight years, divided into
two exploration periods of four years, with an optional extension of five
years for each license.

Brazil

The exploration and production of oil and gas are governed by concession
contracts and production sharing contracts. Concession contracts provide for
an exploration period of up to eight years and a production period of 27
years. Production sharing contracts provide for an exploration period of up to
seven years and a production period of up to 28 years.

Guyana

The Petroleum (Exploration and Production) Act authorizes the government of
Guyana to grant petroleum prospecting and production licenses and to enter
into petroleum agreements for the exploration and production of hydrocarbons.
Petroleum agreements provide for an exploration period of up to 10 years and a
production period of 20 years, with a 10-year extension.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Europe| | | |  
  
Germany

Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five
years, with an unlimited number of extensions up to three years each.
Extensions are subject to specific minimum work commitments. Production
licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible
extensions subject to production on the license.

Netherlands

Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003, exploration and production
licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are issued for a period as
explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on the period of time
necessary to perform the activities for which the license is issued. License
conditions are stipulated in the license and are based on the Mining Law.

Production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003, remain subject to their
existing terms and differ slightly for onshore and offshore areas. Onshore
production licenses issued prior to 1988 were indefinite; from 1988 they were
issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 35 to
45 years. Offshore production licenses issued before 1976 were issued for a
fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were again issued for a period as
explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15 to 40 years.

21

* * *

  

United Kingdom

Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For
example, many of the early licenses issued under the first four licensing
rounds provided an initial term of six years with relinquishment of at least
one-half of the original area at the end of the initial term, subject to
extension for a further 40 years. At the end of any such 40-year term,
licenses may continue in producing areas until cessation of production; or
licenses may continue in development areas for periods agreed on a case-by-
case basis until they become producing areas; or licenses terminate in all
other areas. The majority of traditional licenses currently issued have an
initial exploration term of four years with a second term extension of four
years, and a final production term of 18 years, with a mandatory
relinquishment of 50 percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all
acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second
term.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Africa| | | |  
  
Angola

Exploration and production activities are governed by either production
sharing agreements or other contracts with initial exploration terms ranging
from three to four years with options to extend from one to five years. The
production periods range from 20 to 30 years, and the agreements generally
provide for negotiated extensions.

Equatorial Guinea

Exploration, development and production activities are governed by production
sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines and
Hydrocarbons. The production period for crude oil is 30 years.

Mozambique

Exploration and production activities are generally governed by concession
contracts with the Government of the Republic of Mozambique, represented by
the Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy. An interest in Area 4 offshore
Mozambique was acquired in 2017. Terms for Area 4 are governed by the
Exploration and Production Concession Contract (EPCC) for Area 4 Offshore of
the Rovuma Block. The EPCC expires 30 years after an approved plan of
development becomes effective for a given discovery area.

In 2018, an interest was acquired in offshore blocks A5-B, Z5-C, and Z5-D.
Terms for the three blocks are governed by their respective EPCCs, with blocks
Z5-C and Z5-D having an initial exploration phase that expired in 2022,
resulting in a relinquishment of acreage in those blocks. Block A5-B's initial
exploration phase expires in 2023. A5-B's EPCC provides a development and
production period that expires 30 years after the approval of a plan of
development.

Nigeria

Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are
typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) with the national
oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NNPC
typically holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting
Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years,
including a 10-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase that can
be divided into multiple optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial
discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is
required under the PSC at the end of the 10-year exploration period, and OMLs
have a 20-year production period that may be extended, subject to the partial
relinquishment. In August 16, 2021, the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) was
enacted to replace the Petroleum Act of 1969. This granted Petroleum
Prospecting Licenses (PPLs - replacing OPLs) with an initial term of five
years and optional five-year extension. Petroleum Mining Leases (PMLs -
replacing OMLs) are granted for each commercial discovery in the PPL for a
20-year term. The PIA also had a "savings provision" which allowed NNPC to
renegotiate its PSCs and renew their OMLs for 20 years under existing 1969 Act
terms, within 12 months from the enactment of the PIA. On August 11, 2022, the
leases for OML 133 and 138 were renewed under the savings provision.

OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs,
have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for onshore or offshore
location and are renewable, upon 12-months written notice. All future renewals
will be conducted under PIA terms.

OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under the Mineral Oils Act
1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40
years in offshore areas and have been renewed, effective March 11, 2011, for a
further period of 20 years. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted
under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. Commercial terms
applicable to the existing joint venture oil production are defined by the
Petroleum Profits Tax Act (PPT). This was also repealed by the PIA in August
2021 with lease holders having the option to convert to PIA terms or retain
PPT terms until their current leases expire.

  

22

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Asia| | | |  
  
Azerbaijan

The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the Azeri-
Chirag-Gunashli field was established for an initial period of 30 years
starting from the PSA execution date in 1994. The PSA was amended in September
2017 to extend the term by 25 years to 2049.

Indonesia

Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by
cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a production sharing contract
(PSC). The current PSCs have an exploration period of six years, which can be
extended once for a period of four years with a total contract period of 30
years including an exploitation period. PSC terms can be extended for a
maximum of 20 years for each extension with the approval of the government.

Iraq

Development and production activities in the state-owned oil and gas fields
are governed by contracts with regional oil companies of the Iraqi Ministry of
Oil. An ExxonMobil affiliate entered into a contract with Basra Oil Company of
the Iraqi Ministry of Oil for the rights to participate in the development and
production activities of the West Qurna Phase I oil and gas field effective
March 1, 2010. The term of the contract is 20 years with the right to extend
for a period of five to 15 years. The contract provides for cost recovery plus
per-barrel fees for incremental production above specified levels.

Kazakhstan

Onshore exploration and production activities are governed by the production
license, exploration license, and joint venture agreements negotiated with the
Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year
production period that commenced in 1993.

Offshore exploration and production activities are governed by a production
sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration
period is six years followed by separate appraisal periods for each discovery.
The production period for each discovery, which includes development, is 20
years from the date of declaration of commerciality with the possibility of
two 10-year extensions.

Malaysia

Production activities are governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs)
negotiated with the national oil company. The PSCs have production terms of 25
years. Extensions are generally subject to the national oil company's prior
written approval.

Qatar

The State of Qatar grants gas production development project rights to develop
and supply gas from the offshore North Field to permit the economic
development and production of gas reserves sufficient to satisfy the gas and
LNG sales obligations of these projects. The initial terms for these rights
generally extend for 25 years. Extensions and terms are subject to State of
Qatar approval.

Russia

Terms for ExxonMobil's Sakhalin acreage were fixed by a production sharing
agreement between the Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of
which ExxonMobil was the operator. Effective October 14, 2022, the Russian
government unilaterally terminated the Corporation's interests in Sakhalin,
transferring operations to a Russian operator.

Refer to "Note 2: Russia" of the Financial Section of this report for
additional information.

Thailand

The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under ExxonMobil's concessions for
30 years with a 10-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the time.

United Arab Emirates

An interest in the development and production activities of the offshore Upper
Zakum field was acquired in 2006. In 2017, the governing agreements were
extended to 2051.

  

23

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Australia / Oceania| | | |  
  
Australia

Exploration and production activities conducted offshore in Commonwealth
waters are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits are granted
for an initial term of six years with two possible five-year renewal periods.
Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially viable
at the time of application but are likely to become commercially viable within
15 years. These are granted for periods of five years, and renewals may be
requested. Prior to July 1998, production licenses were granted initially for
21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter indefinitely,
i.e., for the life of the field. Effective from July 1998, new production
licenses are granted indefinitely. In each case, a production license may be
terminated if no production operations have been carried on for five years.

Papua New Guinea

Exploration and production activities are governed by the Oil and Gas Act.
Petroleum prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term of six years
with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of three years is
possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent relinquishment of
the license area is required at the end of the initial six-year term, if
extended. Petroleum development licenses are granted for an initial 25-year
period. An extension for further consecutive period(s) of up to 20 years may
be granted at the Minister's discretion. Petroleum retention licenses may be
granted for gas resources that are not commercially viable at the time of
application but may become commercially viable within the maximum possible
retention time of 15 years. Petroleum retention licenses are granted for an
initial five-year period, and may only be extended, at the Minister's
discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of 15 years.

24

* * *

  

Information with regard to refining capacity:

ExxonMobil manufactures, trades, and sells petroleum products. The refining
and supply operations encompass a global network of manufacturing plants,
transportation systems, and distribution centers that provide a range of
fuels, lubricants, feedstocks, and other products to our customers around the
world.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Refining Capacity At Year-End 2022 (1)  
  
| | | | | | | | |  
| |  | | | | |

ExxonMobil

Share KBD (2)

| | ExxonMobil  
Interest %  
United States| |  | | | | |  | |  
Joliet| | Illinois| n| | | | 258 | | | 100  
Baton Rouge| | Louisiana| n| | ▲| | 523 | | | 100  
  
Billings (3)

| | Montana| n| | | | 60 | | | 100  
Baytown| | Texas| n| | ▲| | 565 | | | 100  
Beaumont| | Texas| n| | ▲| | 369 | | | 100  
Total United States| |  | | | | | 1,775 | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Canada| |  | | | | |  | |  
Strathcona| | Alberta| n| | | | 197 | | | 69.6  
Nanticoke| | Ontario| n| | | | 113 | | | 69.6  
Sarnia| | Ontario| n| | | | 123 | | | 69.6  
Total Canada| |  | | | | | 433 | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Europe| |  | | | | |  | |  
Antwerp| | Belgium| n| | | | 307 | | | 100  
Fos-sur-Mer| | France| n| | | | 133 | | | 82.9  
Gravenchon| | France| n| | ▲| | 244 | | | 82.9  
Karlsruhe| | Germany| n| | | | 78 | | | 25  
  
Trecate (3)

| | Italy| n| | | | 132 | | | 75  
Rotterdam| | Netherlands| n| | ▲| | 192 | | | 100  
| | | | | | | | |  
Fawley| | United Kingdom| n| | ▲| | 262 | | | 100  
Total Europe| |  | | | | | 1,348 | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Asia Pacific| |  | | | | |  | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Fujian| | China| n| | | | 67 | | | 25  
Jurong/PAC| | Singapore| n| | ▲| | 592 | | | 100  
  
Sriracha (3)

| | Thailand| n| | | | 167 | | | 66  
Total Asia Pacific| |  | | | | | 826 | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Middle East| |  | | | | |  | |  
Yanbu| | Saudi Arabia| n| | | | 200 | | | 50  
| | | | | | | | |  
Total Worldwide| |  | | | | | 4,582 | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
n Energy Products ▲ Specialty Products  
  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Capacity data is based on 100 percent of rated refinery process unit
stream-day capacities under normal operating conditions, less the impact of
shutdowns for regular repair and maintenance activities, averaged over an
extended period of time. The listing excludes refining capacity for a minor
interest held through equity securities in the Laffan Refinery in Qatar for
which results are reported in the Upstream segment.  
  
(2) Thousands of barrels per day (KBD). ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent
of atmospheric distillation capacity in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-
owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share
is the greater of ExxonMobil's interest or that portion of distillation
capacity normally available to ExxonMobil.  
  
(3) The Corporation announced sales agreements relating to these assets and
expects the transactions to close in 2023.  
  
  

25

* * *

  

Information with regard to retail fuel sites:

Within the Energy Products segment, retail fuels sites sell products and
services throughout the world through our Exxon, Esso, and Mobil brands.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Number of Retail Fuel Sites At Year-End 2022

| |  
| | |  
| Owned/leased| Distributors/resellers| Total  
| | |  
  
United States (1)

| -- | | 11,139 | | 11,139 |  
Canada| -- | | 2,415 | | 2,415 |  
  
Europe (2)

| 197 | | 5,830 | | 6,027 |  
  
Asia Pacific (3)

| 563 | | 1,438 | | 2,001 |  
Latin America| -- | | 510 | | 510 |  
Middle East/Africa| 221 | | 200 | | 421 |  
Worldwide| 981 | | 21,532 | | 22,513 |  
| | |  
  
(1) In October 2022, the Corporation reached an agreement with Par Pacific
Holdings for the sale of the Billings refinery and select midstream assets,
which includes about 300 retail fuel sites, and expects the transaction to
close in 2023.  
  
(2) In December 2022, the Corporation reached an agreement with Italiana
Petroli for the sale of the Italy fuels business, which includes about 2,300
retail fuel sites, and expects the transaction to close in 2023.  
  
(3) In January 2023, the Corporation announced the sale of its interest in
Esso Thailand, which includes a network of about 800 retail fuel sites, and
expects the transaction to close in 2023.  
  
  

  

26

* * *

  

Information with regard to chemical complex capacity:

ExxonMobil manufactures and sells petrochemicals. The large/integrated
chemical complexes supply olefins, polyolefins, and a wide variety of other
petrochemical products.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Chemical Complex Capacity At Year-End 2022 (1)  
  
| | | | | | | | | |  
(millions of metric tons per year, unless otherwise noted)| | Ethylene| |
Polyethylene| | Polypropylene| | ExxonMobil  
Interest %  
| | | | | | | | | |  
North America| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Baton Rouge| | Louisiana| | 1.1 | | | 1.3 | | | 0.9 | | | 100 |  
Baytown| | Texas| | 4.0 | | | -- | | | 0.7 | | | 100 |  
Beaumont| | Texas| | 0.9 | | | 1.7 | | | -- | | | 100 |  
Corpus Christi| | Texas| | 0.9 | | | 0.7 | | | -- | | | 50 |  
Mont Belvieu| | Texas| | -- | | | 2.3 | | | -- | | | 100 |  
Sarnia| | Ontario| | 0.3 | | | 0.5 | | | -- | | | 69.6 |  
Total North America| |  | | 7.2 | | | 6.5 | | | 1.6 | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Europe| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Antwerp| | Belgium| | -- | | | 0.4 | | | -- | | | 100 |  
Fife| | United Kingdom| | 0.4 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 50 |  
Gravenchon| | France| | 0.4 | | | 0.4 | | | 0.3 | | | 100 |  
Meerhout| | Belgium| | -- | | | 0.5 | | | -- | | | 100 |  
Total Europe| |  | | 0.8 | | | 1.3 | | | 0.3 | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Middle East| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Al Jubail| | Saudi Arabia| | 0.7 | | | 0.7 | | | -- | | | 50 |  
Yanbu| | Saudi Arabia| | 1.0 | | | 0.7 | | | 0.2 | | | 50 |  
Total Middle East| |  | | 1.7 | | | 1.4 | | | 0.2 | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Asia Pacific| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Fujian| | China| | 0.3 | | | 0.2 | | | 0.2 | | | 25 |  
Singapore| | Singapore| | 1.9 | | | 1.9 | | | 0.9 | | | 100 |  
Total Asia Pacific| |  | | 2.2 | | | 2.1 | | | 1.1 | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Total Worldwide| |  | | 11.9 | | | 11.2 | | | 3.2 | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Capacity reflects 100 percent for operations of majority-owned
subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil's
interest.  
  
Due to rounding, numbers presented above may not add up precisely to the
totals indicated.  
  
27

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS| | | |  
  
ExxonMobil has elected to use a $1 million threshold for disclosing
environmental proceedings.

On August 4, 2022, XTO Energy, Inc. ("XTO") received a letter from the
Department of Justice ("DOJ") notifying XTO of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency's ("EPA") request to initiate a potential civil action
against XTO regarding the Schnegg well in Powhatan Point, Ohio. The letter did
not quantify an associated civil penalty potentially sought by the DOJ. The
EPA alleges XTO breached its duty under the General Duty Clause of the Clean
Air Act for the Schnegg well, and such breaches resulted in the 2018 well
blowout. Neither a civil action has been filed nor a draft consent decree has
been provided by the DOJ. XTO is assessing the factual basis of the allegation
and any associated penalties. In discussions in January 2023, the DOJ
indicated it may seek a potential penalty substantially in excess of $1
million and XTO strongly disagrees with DOJ's initial position.

On November 21, 2022, the State of Texas, acting by and through its Attorney
General ("State"), filed a complaint against the Corporation (captioned State
of Texas v. Exxon Mobil Corporation) in Travis County District Court, TX,
Cause No. D-1-GN-22-006534, for alleged violations of the Texas Clean Air Act
at the Baytown Olefins Plant located in Baytown, Texas. The complaint seeks
civil penalties for alleged unauthorized air pollution, unauthorized outdoor
burning, nuisance, and unauthorized visible emissions associated with multiple
alleged air emissions events between 2018 and 2022 in an amount in excess of
$1 million and injunctive relief against the Corporation to enjoin a violation
or threatened violation of any Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
statute. The State also seeks to recover its fees and costs of litigation.

Refer to the relevant portions of "Note 16: Litigation and Other
Contingencies" of the Financial Section of this report for additional
information on legal proceedings.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES| | | |  
  
Not applicable.

28

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Information about our Executive Officers (positions and ages as of February
22, 2023)  
  
| |  
Name| Age| Current and Prior Positions (up to five years)  
| |  
Darren W. Woods| 58|

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (since January 1, 2017)

Director and President (since January 1, 2016)  
  
| |  
Neil A. Chapman| 60|

Senior Vice President (since January 1, 2018)  
  
| |  
Kathryn A. Mikells| 57|

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since August 9, 2021)

Chief Financial Officer and a member of the board of directors for Diageo plc

(November 2015 - June 2021)  
  
| |  
Jack P. Williams, Jr.| 59|

Senior Vice President (since June 1, 2014)  
  
| |  
James R. Chapman| 53|

Vice President, Tax and Treasurer (since November 28, 2022)

Dominion Energy, Inc. (prior to November 28, 2022):

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer (January 2019
- November 2022)

Senior Vice President, CFO and Treasurer (November 2018 - December 2018)

Senior Vice President, Mergers & Acquisitions and Treasurer (February 2016 -
October 2018)  
  
| |  
Len M. Fox  
| 59|

Vice President and Controller (since March 1, 2021 following a special
assignment)

Assistant Treasurer, Exxon Mobil Corporation (February 1, 2020 - December 31,
2020)

Vice President, Chemical Business Services and Treasurer (June 1, 2015 -
January 31, 2020)  
  
| |  
Jon M. Gibbs  
| 51|

President of ExxonMobil Global Projects Company (since April 1, 2021)

Senior Vice President, Global Project Delivery, ExxonMobil Global Projects
Company

(July 1, 2020 - March 31, 2021)

President, ExxonMobil Global Services Company (April 1, 2019 - June 30, 2020)

Upstream Organization Design Team Lead, ExxonMobil Development Company

(January 15, 2019 - March 31, 2019)

Vice President, Asia Pacific and Middle East, ExxonMobil Development Company

(January 1, 2016 - January 14, 2019)  
  
| |  
Liam M. Mallon  
| 60|

Vice President (since April 1, 2019)

President, ExxonMobil Upstream Company (since April 1, 2022)

President, ExxonMobil Upstream Oil & Gas Company (April 1, 2019 - March 31,
2022)

President, ExxonMobil Development Company (January 1, 2017 - March 31, 2019)  
  
| |  
Karen T. McKee  
| 56|

Vice President (since April 1, 2019)

President, ExxonMobil Product Solutions Company (since April 1, 2022)

President, ExxonMobil Chemical Company (April 1, 2019 - March 31, 2022)

Senior Vice President, Basic Chemicals, Integration & Growth, ExxonMobil
Chemical Company

(August 1, 2017 - March 31, 2019)  
  
| |  
Craig S. Morford  
| 64|

Vice President and General Counsel (since November 1, 2020)

Secretary (since March 1, 2022)

Deputy General Counsel (May 1, 2019 - October 31, 2020)

Chief Legal and Compliance Officer of Cardinal Health, Inc. (until March 2019)  
  
| |  
  
Darrin L. Talley

| 58|

Vice President, Corporate Strategic Planning (since April 1, 2022)

President, ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company (April 1, 2020 - March
31, 2022)

Manager, Corporate Strategy, Corporate Strategic Planning (March 15, 2017 -
March 31, 2020)  
  
  

Officers are generally elected by the Board of Directors at its meeting on the
day of each annual election of directors, with each such officer serving until
a successor has been elected and qualified. The above-named officers are
required to file reports under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.

29

* * *

  

PART II

| |  
---|---|---  
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  
  
The principal market where ExxonMobil common stock (XOM) is traded is the New
York Stock Exchange, although the stock is traded on other exchanges in and
outside the United States.

There were 310,437 registered shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock at
December 31, 2022. At January 31, 2023, the registered shareholders of
ExxonMobil common stock numbered 308,630.

On January 30, 2023, the Corporation declared a $0.91 dividend per common
share, payable March 10, 2023.

Reference is made to Item 12 in Part III of this report.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for Quarter Ended December 31, 2022  
  
|

Total Number of Shares Purchased (1)

|

Average Price Paid per Share (2)

|

Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or
Programs (3)

| Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the
Program  
(Billions of dollars)  
  
October 2022

| 14,693,713| $102.09| 14,693,705| $37.9  
  
November 2022

| 15,273,566| $112.13| 12,755,411| $36.5  
  
December 2022

| 13,674,403| $106.99| 13,674,403| $35.0  
Total| 43,641,682| $107.14| 41,123,519|  
| | | |  
  
(1) Includes shares withheld from participants in the company's incentive
program for personal income taxes.  
  
(2) The full-year average price paid per share is $93.15.  
  
(3) In its 2022 Corporate Plan Update released December 8, 2022, the
Corporation stated that the company expanded its share repurchase program to
up to $50 billion through 2024, including $15 billion of repurchases in 2022.  
  
During the fourth quarter, the Corporation did not issue or sell any
unregistered equity securities.

  

  

| |  
---|---|---  
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
  
Reference is made to the section entitled "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Financial
Section of this report.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  
  
Reference is made to the section entitled "Market Risks" in the Financial
Section of this report. All statements, other than historical information
incorporated in this Item 7A, are forward-looking statements. The actual
impact of future market changes could differ materially due to, among other
things, factors discussed in this report.

  

30

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA| |  
  
Reference is made to the following in the Financial Section of this report:

•Consolidated financial statements, together with the report thereon of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PCAOB ID 238) dated February 22, 2023, beginning
with the section entitled "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm" and continuing through "Note 20: Divestment Activities";

•"Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production
Activities" (unaudited); and

•"Frequently Used Terms" (unaudited).

Financial Statement Schedules have been omitted because they are not
applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
statements or notes thereto.

  

| |  
---|---|---  
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  
  
None.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES| |  
  
Management's Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

As indicated in the certifications in Exhibit 31 of this report, the
Corporation's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Principal
Accounting Officer have evaluated the Corporation's disclosure controls and
procedures as of December 31, 2022\. Based on that evaluation, these officers
have concluded that the Corporation's disclosure controls and procedures are
effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by the
Corporation in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to them in a
manner that allows for timely decisions regarding required disclosures and are
effective in ensuring that such information is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and forms.

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management, including the Corporation's Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting Officer, is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the Corporation's
financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation,
management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation's internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2022.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,
audited the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2022, as stated in their report included in the
Financial Section of this report.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There were no changes during the Corporation's last fiscal quarter that
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Corporation's internal control over financial reporting.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

| |  
  
None.

  

| |  
---|---|---  
ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS  
  
Not applicable.

  

31

* * *

  

PART III

| |  
---|---|---  
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
  
Reference is made to the section of this report titled "Information about our
Executive Officers".

Incorporated by reference to the following from the registrant's definitive
proxy statement for the 2023 annual meeting of shareholders (the "2023 Proxy
Statement"):

•The section entitled "Election of Directors";

•The portions entitled "Director Qualifications", "Director Nomination Process
and Board Succession", and "Code of Ethics and Business Conduct" of the
section entitled "Corporate Governance"; and

•The "Director Independence" portion, "Board Meetings and Annual Meeting
Attendance" portion, the membership table of the portion entitled "Board
Committees", the "Audit Committee" portion and the "Nominating and Governance
Committee" portion of the section entitled "Corporate Governance".

  

| |  
---|---|---  
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  
  
Incorporated by reference to the sections entitled "Director Compensation",
"Compensation Committee Report", "Compensation Discussion and Analysis",
"Executive Compensation Tables", "Pay Ratio", and "Pay Versus Performance" of
the registrant's 2023 Proxy Statement.

  

| |  
---|---|---  
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  
  
The information required under Item 403 of Regulation S-K is incorporated by
reference to the sections "Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Director and
Executive Officer Stock Ownership" of the registrant's 2023 Proxy Statement.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Equity Compensation Plan Information  
| (a)| | (b)| | (c)  
Plan Category| Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding
Options, Warrants and Rights| | Weighted-Average Exercise Price of Outstanding
Options, Warrants and Rights| | Number of Securities  
Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans
[Excluding Securities Reflected in Column (a)]  
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders| 42,542,460 | | |

(1)

| | --| | 60,288,068 | | |

(2)(3)  
  
| | | | | | | | |  
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders| -- | | |  | | --|
| -- | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Total| 42,542,460 | | |  | | --| | 60,288,068 | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) The number of restricted stock units to be settled in shares.  
  
(2) Available shares can be granted in the form of restricted stock or other
stock-based awards. Includes 59,964,868 shares available for award under the
2003 Incentive Program and 323,200 shares available for award under the 2004
Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan.  
  
(3) Under the 2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan approved by
shareholders in May 2004, and the related standing resolution adopted by the
Board, each non-employee director automatically receives 8,000 shares of
restricted stock when first elected to the Board and, if the director remains
in office, an additional 2,500 restricted shares each following year. While on
the Board, each non-employee director receives the same cash dividends on
restricted shares as a holder of regular common stock, but the director is not
allowed to sell the shares. The restricted shares may be forfeited if the
director leaves the Board early.  
  
  

  

32

* * *

  

| |  
---|---|---  
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE  
  
Incorporated by reference to the portion entitled "Related Person Transactions
and Procedures" of the section entitled "Director and Executive Officer Stock
Ownership"; and the portion entitled "Director Independence" of the section
entitled "Corporate Governance" of the registrant's 2023 Proxy Statement.

  

| |  
---|---|---  
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  
  
Incorporated by reference to the portion entitled "Audit Committee" of the
section entitled "Corporate Governance" and the section entitled "Ratification
of Independent Auditors" of the registrant's 2023 Proxy Statement.

  

PART IV

| |  
---|---|---  
ITEM 15. EXHIBIT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  
  
(a)(1) and (2) Financial Statements:

See Table of Contents of the Financial Section of this report.

(b)(3) Exhibits:

See Index to Exhibits of this report.

  

| |  
---|---|---  
ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY  
  
None.

  

33

* * *

  

FINANCIAL SECTION

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
|  
Business Profile|

35  
  
Financial Information|

36  
  
Frequently Used Terms|

37  
  
|  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|  
|  
Forward-Looking Statements|

42  
  
Overview|

43  
  
Business Environment|

43  
  
Business Results|

49  
  
Liquidity and Capital Resources|

63  
  
Capital and Exploration Expenditures|

67  
  
Taxes|

67  
  
Environmental Matters|

68  
  
Market Risks|

68  
  
Critical Accounting Estimates|

70  
  
|  
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting|

74  
  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm|

75  
  
|  
Consolidated Financial Statements|  
|  
Statement of Income|

77  
  
Statement of Comprehensive Income|

78  
  
Balance Sheet|

79  
  
Statement of Cash Flows|

80  
  
Statement of Changes in Equity|

81  
  
|  
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements|  
|  
1\. Summary of Accounting Policies|

82  
  
2\. Russia|

87  
  
3\. Miscellaneous Financial Information|

88  
  
4\. Other Comprehensive Income Information|

89  
  
5\. Cash Flow Information|

90  
  
6\. Additional Working Capital Information|

90  
  
7\. Equity Company Information|

91  
  
8\. Investments, Advances and Long-Term Receivables|

93  
  
9\. Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations|

93  
  
10\. Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Well Costs|

95  
  
11\. Leases|

97  
  
12\. Earnings Per Share|

99  
  
13\. Financial Instruments and Derivatives|

100  
  
14\. Long-Term Debt|

101  
  
15\. Incentive Program|

103  
  
16\. Litigation and Other Contingencies|

104  
  
17\. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits|

105  
  
18\. Disclosures about Segments and Related Information|

111  
  
19\. Income and Other Taxes|

114  
  
20\. Divestment Activities |

118  
  
|  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities|

119  
  
  

34

* * *

BUSINESS PROFILE

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Earnings (Loss) After  
Income Taxes| |

Average Capital

Employed (Non-GAAP)

| |

Return on

Average Capital

Employed (Non-GAAP)

| | Capital and  
Exploration  
Expenditures  
Financial| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
| | (millions of dollars)| | (millions of dollars)| | (percent)| | (millions
of dollars)  
Upstream| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
United States| | 11,728 | | | 3,663 | | | 52,555 | | | 55,305 | | | 22.3| |
6.6| | 6,968 | | | 4,018 |  
Non-U.S.| | 24,751 | | | 12,112 | | | 93,250 | | | 101,645 | | | 26.5| | 11.9|
| 10,034 | | | 8,236 |  
Total| | 36,479 | | | 15,775 | | | 145,805 | | | 156,950 | | | 25.0| | 10.1| |
17,002 | | | 12,254 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Energy Products| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
United States| | 8,340 | | | 668 | | | 11,787 | | | 11,902 | | | 70.8| | 5.6|
| 1,351 | | | 982 |  
Non-U.S.| | 6,626 | | | (1,014)| | | 18,855 | | | 18,537 | | | 35.1| | (5.5)|
| 1,059 | | | 1,005 |  
Total| | 14,966 | | | (347)| | | 30,642 | | | 30,439 | | | 48.8| | (1.1)| |
2,410 | | | 1,987 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Chemical Products| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
United States| | 2,328 | | | 3,697 | | | 14,694 | | | 14,107 | | | 15.8| |
26.2| | 1,123 | | | 1,200 |  
Non-U.S.| | 1,215 | | | 3,292 | | | 12,513 | | | 11,758 | | | 9.7| | 28.0| |
1,842 | | | 825 |  
Total| | 3,543 | | | 6,989 | | | 27,207 | | | 25,865 | | | 13.0| | 27.0| |
2,965 | | | 2,025 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Specialty Products| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
United States| | 1,190 | | | 1,452 | | | 2,072 | | | 1,997 | | | 57.4| | 72.7|
| 46 | | | 185 |  
Non-U.S.| | 1,225 | | | 1,807 | | | 6,207 | | | 5,915 | | | 19.7| | 30.5| |
222 | | | 141 |  
Total| | 2,415 | | | 3,259 | | | 8,279 | | | 7,912 | | | 29.2| | 41.2| | 268 |
| | 326 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Corporate and Financing| | (1,663)| | | (2,636)| | | 16,471 | | | 1,724 | | |
--| | --| | 59 | | | 3 |  
Corporate total| | 55,740 | | | 23,040 | | | 228,404 | | | 222,890 | | | 24.9|
| 10.9| | 22,704 | | | 16,595 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
See Frequently Used Terms for a definition and calculation of capital employed
and return on average capital employed.  
Due to rounding, numbers presented may not add up precisely to the totals
indicated.  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Operating| 2022| | 2021| |  | | 2022| | 2021  
  
Net liquids production

(thousands of barrels daily)

|  | |  | |

Refinery throughput

(thousands of barrels daily)

| |  | |  
United States| 776 | | | 721 | | | United States| | 1,702 | | | 1,623 |  
Non-U.S.| 1,578 | | | 1,568 | | | Non-U.S.| | 2,328 | | | 2,322 |  
Total| 2,354 | | | 2,289 | | | Total| | 4,030 | | | 3,945 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
Natural gas production available for sale

(millions of cubic feet daily)

|  | |  | |

Energy Products sales (2)

(thousands of barrels daily)

| |  | |  
United States| 2,551 | | | 2,746 | | | United States| | 2,426 | | | 2,267 |  
Non-U.S.| 5,744 | | | 5,791 | | | Non-U.S.| | 2,921 | | | 2,863 |  
Total| 8,295 | | | 8,537 | | | Total| | 5,347 | | | 5,130 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
Oil-equivalent production (1)

(thousands of oil-equivalent barrels daily)

| 3,737 | | | 3,712 | | |

Chemical Products sales (2)

(thousands of metric tons)

| | | |  
| | | | | United States| | 7,270 | | | 7,017 |  
|  | |  | | Non-U.S.| | 11,897 | | | 12,126 |  
| | | | | Total| | 19,167 | | | 19,142 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
| | | | |

Specialty Products sales (2)

(thousands of metric tons)

| | | |  
| | | | | United States| | 2,049 | | | 1,943 |  
| | | | | Non-U.S.| | 5,762 | | | 5,723 |  
|  | |  | | Total| | 7,810 | | | 7,666 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Natural gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic
feet per one thousand barrels.  
  
(2) Data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.  
  
Due to rounding, numbers presented may not add up precisely to the totals
indicated.  
  
35

* * *

FINANCIAL INFORMATION

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars, except where stated otherwise)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020|
| | |  
Sales and other operating revenue| | | 398,675 | | | 276,692 | | | 178,574 | |
| | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Net income (loss) attributable to ExxonMobil| | | 55,740 | | | 23,040 | | |
(22,440)| | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Earnings (loss) per common share (dollars)| | | 13.26 | | | 5.39 | | | (5.25)|
| | | |  
Earnings (loss) per common share - assuming dilution (dollars)| | | 13.26 | |
| 5.39 | | | (5.25)| | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Earnings (loss) to average ExxonMobil share of equity (percent)| | | 30.7 | |
| 14.1 | | | (12.9)| | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Working capital| | | 28,586 | | | 2,511 | | | (11,470)| | | | |  
Ratio of current assets to current liabilities (times)| | | 1.41 | | | 1.04 |
| | 0.80 | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Additions to property, plant and equipment| | | 18,338 | | | 12,541 | | |
17,342 | | | | |  
Property, plant and equipment, less allowances| | | 204,692 | | | 216,552 | |
| 227,553 | | | | |  
Total assets| | | 369,067 | | | 338,923 | | | 332,750 | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Exploration expenses, including dry holes| | | 1,025 | | | 1,054 | | | 1,285 |
| | | |  
Research and development costs| | | 824 | | | 843 | | | 1,016 | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Long-term debt| | | 40,559 | | | 43,428 | | | 47,182 | | | | |  
Total debt| | | 41,193 | | | 47,704 | | | 67,640 | | | | |  
Debt to capital (percent)| | | 16.9 | | | 21.4 | | | 29.2 | | | | |  
  
Net debt to capital (percent) (1)

| | | 5.4 | | | 18.9 | | | 27.8 | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
ExxonMobil share of equity at year-end| | | 195,049 | | | 168,577 | | |
157,150 | | | | |  
ExxonMobil share of equity per common share (dollars)| | | 47.78 | | | 39.77 |
| | 37.12 | | | | |  
Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (millions)| | | 4,205 | |
| 4,275 | | | 4,271 | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Number of regular employees at year-end (thousands) (2)

| | | 62.3 | | | 63.0 | | | 72.0 | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Debt net of cash.

| | | |  
  
(2) Regular employees are defined as active executive, management,
professional, technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for
the Corporation and are covered by the Corporation's benefit plans and
programs.

| | | |  
  
  

  

36

* * *

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS

Listed below are definitions of several of ExxonMobil's key business and
financial performance measures. These definitions are provided to facilitate
understanding of the terms and their calculation.

Cash Flow From Operations and Asset Sales (Non-GAAP)

Cash flow from operations and asset sales is the sum of the net cash provided
by operating activities and proceeds associated with sales of subsidiaries,
property, plant and equipment, and sales and returns of investments from the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. This cash flow reflects the total
sources of cash both from operating the Corporation's assets and from the
divesting of assets. The Corporation employs a long-standing and regular
disciplined review process to ensure that assets are contributing to the
Corporation's strategic objectives. Assets are divested when they are no
longer meeting these objectives or are worth considerably more to others.
Because of the regular nature of this activity, we believe it is useful for
investors to consider proceeds associated with asset sales together with cash
provided by operating activities when evaluating cash available for investment
in the business and financing activities, including shareholder distributions.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Cash Flow From Operations and Asset Sales

(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Net cash provided by operating activities| 76,797 | | | 48,129 | | | 14,668 |  
Proceeds associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment,
and sales and returns of investments| 5,247 | | | 3,176 | | | 999 |  
  
Cash flow from operations and asset sales (Non-GAAP)

| 82,044 | | | 51,305 | | | 15,667 |  
  
Capital Employed (Non-GAAP)

Capital employed is a measure of net investment. When viewed from the
perspective of how the capital is used by the businesses, it includes
ExxonMobil's net share of property, plant and equipment and other assets less
liabilities, excluding both short-term and long-term debt. When viewed from
the perspective of the sources of capital employed in total for the
Corporation, it includes ExxonMobil's share of total debt and equity. Both of
these views include ExxonMobil's share of amounts applicable to equity
companies, which the Corporation believes should be included to provide a more
comprehensive measure of capital employed.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Capital Employed

(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Business uses: asset and liability perspective|  | |  | |  
Total assets| 369,067 | | | 338,923 | | | 332,750 |  
Less liabilities and noncontrolling interests share of assets and liabilities|
| | | |  
Total current liabilities excluding notes and loans payable| (68,411)| | |
(52,367)| | | (35,905)|  
Total long-term liabilities excluding long-term debt| (56,990)| | | (63,169)|
| | (65,075)|  
Noncontrolling interests share of assets and liabilities| (9,205)| | |
(8,746)| | | (8,773)|  
Add ExxonMobil share of debt-financed equity company net assets| 3,705 | | |
4,001 | | | 4,140 |  
  
Total capital employed (Non-GAAP)

| 238,166 | | | 218,642 | | | 227,137 |  
| | | | |  
Total corporate sources: debt and equity perspective| | | | |  
Notes and loans payable| 634 | | | 4,276 | | | 20,458 |  
Long-term debt| 40,559 | | | 43,428 | | | 47,182 |  
ExxonMobil share of equity| 195,049 | | | 168,577 | | | 157,150 |  
Less noncontrolling interests share of total debt| (1,781)| | | (1,640)| | |
(1,793)|  
Add ExxonMobil share of equity company debt| 3,705 | | | 4,001 | | | 4,140 |  
  
Total capital employed (Non-GAAP)

| 238,166 | | | 218,642 | | | 227,137 |  
  
  

  

37

* * *

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS

Return on Average Capital Employed (Non-GAAP)

Return on average capital employed (ROCE) is a performance measure ratio. From
the perspective of the business segments, ROCE is annual business segment
earnings divided by average business segment capital employed (average of
beginning and end-of-year amounts). These segment earnings include
ExxonMobil's share of segment earnings of equity companies, consistent with
our capital employed definition, and exclude the cost of financing. The
Corporation's total ROCE is net income attributable to ExxonMobil excluding
the after-tax cost of financing, divided by total corporate average capital
employed. The Corporation has consistently applied its ROCE definition for
many years and views it as one of the best measures of historical capital
productivity in our capital-intensive, long-term industry. Additional
measures, which are more cash flow based, are used to make investment
decisions.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Return on Average Capital Employed

(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Net income (loss) attributable to ExxonMobil| 55,740 | | | 23,040 | | |
(22,440)|  
Financing costs (after-tax)| | | | |  
Gross third-party debt| (1,213)| | | (1,196)| | | (1,272)|  
ExxonMobil share of equity companies| (198)| | | (170)| | | (182)|  
All other financing costs - net| 276 | | | 11 | | | 666 |  
Total financing costs| (1,135)| | | (1,355)| | | (788)|  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding financing costs (Non-GAAP)

| 56,875 | | | 24,395 | | | (21,652)|  
| | | | |  
Average capital employed| 228,404 | | | 222,890 | | | 234,031 |  
| | | | |  
  
Return on average capital employed - corporate total (Non-GAAP)

| 24.9%| | 10.9%| | (9.3)%  
  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

38

* * *

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS

Structural Cost Savings

Structural cost savings describe decreases in certain expenses as a result of
operational efficiencies, workforce reductions, and other cost saving measures
that are expected to be sustainable compared to 2019 levels. Relative to 2019,
estimated cumulative annual structural cost savings totaled $7 billion. The
total change between periods in expenses below will reflect both structural
cost savings and other changes in spend, including market factors, such as
inflation and foreign exchange impacts, as well as changes in activity levels
and costs associated with new operations. Estimates of cumulative annual
structural savings may be revised depending on whether cost reductions
realized in prior periods are determined to be sustainable compared to 2019
levels. Structural cost savings are stewarded internally to support
management's oversight of spending over time. This measure is useful for
investors to understand the Corporation's efforts to optimize spending through
disciplined expense management.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Calculation of Structural Cost Savings

(billions of dollars)

| 2019| | | | 2022  
Components of operating costs| | | | |  
From ExxonMobil's Consolidated Statement of Income  
(U.S. GAAP)| | | | |  
Production and manufacturing expenses| 36.8 | | | | | 42.6 |  
Selling, general and administrative expenses| 11.4 | | | | | 10.1 |  
Depreciation and depletion (includes impairments)| 19.0 | | | | | 24.0 |  
Exploration expenses, including dry holes| 1.3 | | | | | 1.0 |  
Non-service pension and postretirement benefit expense| 1.2 | | | | | 0.5 |  
Subtotal| 69.7 | | | | | 78.2 |  
ExxonMobil's share of equity company expenses| 9.1 | | | | | 13.0 |  
  
Total operating costs (Non-GAAP)

| 78.8 | | | | | 91.2 |  
| | | | |  
Less:| | | | |  
Depreciation and depletion (includes impairments)| 19.0 | | | | | 24.0 |  
Non-service pension and postretirement benefit expense| 1.2 | | | | | 0.5 |  
Other adjustments (includes equity company depreciation  
and depletion)| 3.6 | | | | | 3.5 |  
  
Total cash operating expenses (cash opex) (Non-GAAP)

| 55.0 | | | | | 63.2 |  
| | | | |  
Energy and production taxes | 11.0 | | | | | 23.8 |  
| | | | |  
| | Market| Activity /  
Other| Structural  
Savings|  
  
Total cash operating expenses (cash opex) excluding energy and production
taxes (Non-GAAP)

| 44.0 | | +3| -1| -7| 39.4 |  
  
  

  

39

* * *

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS

Earnings (Loss) excluding Identified Items (Non-GAAP)

Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items, are earnings (loss) excluding
individually significant non-operational events with an absolute corporate
total earnings impact of at least $250 million in a given quarter. The
earnings (loss) impact of an Identified Item for an individual segment in a
given quarter may be less than $250 million when the item impacts several
segments or several periods. Management uses these figures to improve
comparability of the underlying business across multiple periods by isolating
and removing significant non-operational events from business results. The
Corporation believes this view provides investors increased transparency into
business results and trends, and provides investors with a view of the
business as seen through the eyes of management. Earnings (loss) excluding
Identified Items is not meant to be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for
net income (loss) attributable to ExxonMobil as prepared in accordance with
U.S. GAAP.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Upstream| | | 2022| | | | 2021| | | | 2020|  
(millions of dollars)| | U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total| | U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total| |
U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total  
Earnings (loss) (U.S. GAAP)| | 11,728 | | 24,751 | | 36,479 | | | 3,663 | |
12,112 | | 15,775 | | | (19,385)| | (645)| | (20,030)|  
Impairments| | -- | | (3,790)| | (3,790)| | | (263)| | (489)| | (752)| | |
(17,092)| | (2,244)| | (19,336)|  
Gain/(loss) on sale of assets| | 299 | | 587 | | 886 | | | -- | | 459 | | 459
| | | -- | | -- | | -- |  
Inventory valuation - lower of cost or market| | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | |
-- | | -- | | | -- | | (61)| | (61)|  
Tax-related items| | -- | | (1,415)| | (1,415)| | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | --
| | (297)| | (297)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Contractual provisions| | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | (250)| | (250)| | | --
| | -- | | -- |  
Other| | -- | | 1,380 | | 1,380 | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | --
|  
Identified Items| | 299 | | (3,238)| | (2,939)| | | (263)| | (280)| | (543)| |
| (17,092)| | (2,602)| | (19,694)|  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items (Non-GAAP)

| | 11,429 | | 27,989 | | 39,418 | | | 3,926 | | 12,392 | | 16,318 | | |
(2,293)| | 1,957 | | (336)|  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Energy Products| | | 2022| | | | 2021| | | | 2020|  
(millions of dollars)| | U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total| | U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total| |
U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total  
Earnings (loss) (U.S. GAAP)| | 8,340 | | 6,626 | | 14,966 | | | 668 | |
(1,014)| | (347)| | | (1,342)| | (1,230)| | (2,572)|  
Impairments| | (58)| | (216)| | (274)| | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | (4)| |
(374)| | (378)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Tax-related items| | -- | | (410)| | (410)| | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | |
(262)| | (262)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Identified Items| | (58)| | (626)| | (684)| | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | (4)| |
(636)| | (640)|  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items (Non-GAAP)

| | 8,398 | | 7,252 | | 15,650 | | | 668 | | (1,014)| | (347)| | | (1,338)| |
(594)| | (1,932)|  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Chemical Products| | | 2022| | | | 2021| | | | 2020|  
(millions of dollars)| | U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total| | U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total| |
U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total  
Earnings (loss) (U.S. GAAP)| | 2,328 | | 1,215 | | 3,543 | | | 3,697 | | 3,292
| | 6,989 | | | 1,196 | | 1,061 | | 2,257 |  
Impairments| | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | (90)| | (2)| |
(92)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Tax-related items| | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | |
(13)| | (13)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Identified Items| | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | (90)| |
(15)| | (105)|  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items (Non-GAAP)

| | 2,328 | | 1,215 | | 3,543 | | | 3,697 | | 3,292 | | 6,989 | | | 1,286 | |
1,076 | | 2,362 |  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Specialty Products| | | 2022| | | | 2021| | | | 2020|  
(millions of dollars)| | U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total| | U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total| |
U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total  
Earnings (loss) (U.S. GAAP)| | 1,190 | | 1,225 | | 2,415 | | | 1,452 | | 1,807
| | 3,259 | | | 571 | | 630 | | 1,201 |  
Impairments| | -- | | (40)| | (40)| | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | (219)| |
(219)|  
Gain/(loss) on sale of assets| | -- | | -- | | -- | | | 498 | | 136 | | 634 |
| | -- | | -- | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Tax-related items| | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | (9)|
| (9)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Identified Items| | -- | | (40)| | (40)| | | 498 | | 136 | | 634 | | | -- | |
(228)| | (228)|  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items (Non-GAAP)

| | 1,190 | | 1,265 | | 2,455 | | | 954 | | 1,672 | | 2,625 | | | 571 | | 858
| | 1,429 |  
  
  

40

* * *

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Corporate and Financing

(millions of dollars)

| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Earnings (loss) (U.S. GAAP)| | (1,663)| | | (2,636)| | | (3,296)|  
Impairments| | (98)| | | -- | | | (35)|  
Gain/(loss) on sale of assets| | -- | | | (12)| | | -- |  
| | | | | |  
Tax-related items| | 324 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Severance charges| | -- | | | (52)| | | (326)|  
| | | | | |  
Other| | 76 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Identified Items| | 302 | | | (64)| | | (361)|  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items (Non-GAAP)

| | (1,965)| | | (2,572)| | | (2,935)|  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Corporate Total

(millions of dollars)

| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Net income (loss) attributable to ExxonMobil (U.S. GAAP)| | 55,740 | | |
23,040 | | | (22,440)|  
Impairments| | (4,202)| | | (752)| | | (20,060)|  
Gain/(loss) on sale of assets| | 886 | | | 1,081 | | | -- |  
Inventory valuation - lower of cost or market| | -- | | | -- | | | (61)|  
Tax-related items| | (1,501)| | | -- | | | (581)|  
Severance charges| | -- | | | (52)| | | (326)|  
Contractual provisions| | -- | | | (250)| | | -- |  
Other| | 1,456 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Identified Items| | (3,361)| | | 27 | | | (21,028)|  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items (Non-GAAP)

| | 59,101 | | | 23,013 | | | (1,412)|  
  
  

References in this discussion to Corporate earnings (loss) mean net income
(loss) attributable to ExxonMobil (U.S. GAAP) from the Consolidated Statement
of Income. Unless otherwise indicated, references to earnings (loss),
Upstream, Energy Products, Chemical Products, Specialty Products, and
Corporate and Financing earnings (loss), and earnings (loss) per share are
ExxonMobil's share after excluding amounts attributable to noncontrolling
interests.

  

Due to rounding, numbers presented may not add up precisely to the totals
indicated.

  

41

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Statements related to outlooks; projections; descriptions of strategic,
operating, and financial plans and objectives; statements of future ambitions
and plans; and other statements of future events or conditions are forward-
looking statements. Similarly, discussion of emission-reduction roadmaps or
future plans related to carbon capture, biofuel, hydrogen, plastics recycling,
and other plans to drive towards net-zero emissions are dependent on future
market factors, such as continued technological progress and policy support,
and represent forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including
financial and operating performance; total capital expenditures and mix,
including allocations of capital to low carbon solutions; cost reductions and
efficiency gains, including the ability to offset inflationary pressure;
ambitions to achieve net-zero operated Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 2050;
plans to reach net-zero operated Scope 1 and 2 emissions in our unconventional
Permian Basis operated assets by 2030, to eliminate routine flaring in-line
with World Bank Zero Routine Flaring, and to reach near-zero methane emissions
from operated assets, within evolving growth, start-up, divestment, and
technological efforts; timing and outcome of projects to capture and store
CO2, and produced biofuels; timing and outcome of hydrogen projects; timing to
increase the use of plastic waste as feedstock for advanced recycling; cash
flow, dividends and shareholder returns, including the timing and amounts of
share repurchases; future debt levels and credit ratings; business and project
plans, timing, costs, capacities and returns; and resource recoveries and
production rates could differ materially due to a number of factors. These
include global or regional changes in the supply and demand for oil, natural
gas, petrochemicals, and feedstocks and other market factors, economic
conditions or seasonal fluctuations that impact prices and differentials for
our product; government policies supporting lower carbon investment
opportunities such as the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act or policies limiting
the attractiveness of future investment such as the additional European taxes
on the energy sector; variable impacts of trading activities on our margins
and results each quarter; actions of competitors and commercial
counterparties; the outcome of commercial negotiations, including final agreed
terms and conditions; the ability to access debt markets; the impacts of
COVID-19 or other public health crises, including the effects of government
responses on people and economies; reservoir performance, including
variability and timing factors applicable to unconventional resources; the
level and outcome of exploration projects and decisions to invest in future
reserves; timely completion of development and other construction projects;
final management approval of future projects and any changes in the scope,
terms, or costs of such projects as approved; changes in law, taxes, or
regulation including environmental regulations, trade sanctions, and timely
granting of governmental permits and certifications; government policies and
support and market demand for low carbon technologies; war, civil unrest,
attacks against the company or industry, and other political or security
disturbances; expropriations, seizure, or capacity, insurance or shipping
limitations by foreign governments or laws; opportunities for potential
investments or divestments and satisfaction of applicable conditions to
closing, including regulatory approvals; the capture of efficiencies within
and between business lines and the ability to maintain near-term cost
reductions as ongoing efficiencies; unforeseen technical or operating
difficulties and unplanned maintenance; the development and competitiveness of
alternative energy and emission-reduction technologies; the results of
research programs and the ability to bring new technologies to commercial
scale on a cost-competitive basis; and other factors discussed under Item 1A.
Risk Factors.

Forward-looking and other statements regarding our environmental, social and
other sustainability efforts and aspirations are not an indication that these
statements are necessarily material to investors or requiring disclosure in
our filing with the SEC. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking
environmental, social and sustainability-related statements may be based on
standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls
and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to
change in the future, including future rule-making.

Energy demand models are forward-looking by nature and aim to replicate system
dynamics of the global energy system, requiring simplifications. The reference
to any scenario in this report, including any potential net-zero scenarios,
does not imply ExxonMobil views any particular scenario as likely to occur. In
addition, energy demand scenarios require assumptions on a variety of
parameters. As such, the outcome of any given scenario using an energy demand
model comes with a high degree of uncertainty. For example, the International
Energy Agency (IEA) describes its Net Zero Emissions (NZE) by 2050 scenario as
extremely challenging, requiring unprecedented innovation, unprecedented
international cooperation and sustained support and participation from
consumers. Third-party scenarios discussed in this report reflect the modeling
assumptions and outputs of their respective authors, not ExxonMobil, and their
use by ExxonMobil is not an endorsement by ExxonMobil of their underlying
assumptions, likelihood or probability. Investment decisions are made on the
basis of ExxonMobil's separate planning process. Any use of the modeling of a
third-party organization within this report does not constitute or imply an
endorsement by ExxonMobil of any or all of the positions or activities of such
organization.

The term "project" as used in this report can refer to a variety of different
activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government
payment transparency reports.

42

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

The following discussion and analysis of ExxonMobil's financial results, as
well as the accompanying financial statements and related notes to
consolidated financial statements to which they refer, are the responsibility
of the management of Exxon Mobil Corporation. The Corporation's accounting and
financial reporting fairly reflect its integrated business model involving
exploration for, and production of, crude oil and natural gas; manufacture,
trade, transport and sale of crude oil, natural gas, petroleum products,
petrochemicals, and a wide variety of specialty products; and pursuit of
lower-emission business opportunities including carbon capture and storage,
hydrogen, and lower-emission fuels. ExxonMobil's operating segments are
Upstream, Energy Products, Chemical Products, and Specialty Products. Where
applicable, ExxonMobil voluntarily discloses additional U.S., Non-U.S., and
regional splits to help investors better understand the company's operations.

Effective April 2022, the Corporation streamlined its business structure by
combining the Chemical and Downstream businesses into Product Solutions. The
company is organized along three businesses - Upstream, Product Solutions, and
Low Carbon Solutions, aligning along market-focused value chains. Product
Solutions consists of Energy Products, Chemical Products, and Specialty
Products. Low Carbon Solutions will continue to be included in Corporate and
Financing as the business continues to mature through commercialization and
deployment of technology. The businesses are supported by a combined
technology organization, and other centralized service-delivery groups,
including a global projects organization.

ExxonMobil, with its resource base, financial strength, disciplined investment
approach and technology portfolio, is well-positioned to participate in
substantial investments to develop new energy supplies. The company's
integrated business model, with significant investments in Upstream, Energy
Products, Chemical Products, and Specialty Products segments and Low Carbon
Solutions business, generally reduces the Corporation's risk from changes in
commodity prices. While commodity prices depend on supply and demand and may
be volatile on a short-term basis, ExxonMobil's investment decisions are
grounded on fundamentals reflected in our long-term business outlook, and use
a disciplined approach in selecting and pursuing the most attractive
investment opportunities. The Corporate Plan is a fundamental annual
management process that is the basis for setting operating and capital
objectives in addition to providing the economic assumptions used for
investment evaluation purposes. The foundation for the assumptions supporting
the Corporate Plan is the Outlook for Energy (Outlook), and Corporate Plan
volume projections are based on individual field production profiles, which
are also updated at least annually. Price ranges for crude oil, natural gas,
including price differentials, refinery and chemical margins, volumes,
development and operating costs, including greenhouse gas emissions pricing,
and foreign currency exchange rates are based on Corporate Plan assumptions
developed annually by major region and are utilized for investment evaluation
purposes. Major investment opportunities are evaluated over a range of
potential market conditions. Once we make major investments, we complete a
reappraisal process to ensure we learn from the investment decision and
incorporate the lessons into future projects.

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT

Long-Term Business Outlook

ExxonMobil's business planning is underpinned by a deep understanding of long-
term market fundamentals. These fundamentals include supply and demand trends,
the scale and variety of energy needs worldwide; capability, practicality and
affordability of energy alternatives including low-carbon solutions;
greenhouse gas emission-reduction technologies; and supportive government
policies. The company's Outlook considers these fundamentals to form the basis
for the company's long-term business planning, investment decisions, and
research programs. The Outlook reflects the company's view of global energy
demand and supply through 2050. It is a projection based on current trends in
technology, government policies, consumer preferences, geopolitics, and
economic development.

In addition, ExxonMobil considers a range of scenarios - including remote
scenarios - to help inform perspective of the future and enhance strategic
thinking over time. Included in the range of these scenarios are the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Lower 2°C scenarios and the IEA NZE
by 2050 scenario. The IEA describes the IEA NZE as extremely challenging,
requiring all stakeholders - governments, businesses, investors, and citizens
- to take immediate, unprecedented action. The IEA acknowledges that society
is not currently on the IEA NZE pathway. No single transition pathway can be
reasonably predicted, given the wide range of uncertainties. Key unknowns
include yet-to-be-developed government policies, market conditions, and
advances in technology that may influence the cost, pace, and potential
availability of certain pathways. Scenarios that employ a full complement of
technology options are likely to provide the most economically efficient
pathways.

Using our own experts and third-party sources, we monitor a variety of
signposts that may indicate a potential shift in the energy transition. For
example, the regional pace of the transition could be influenced by the cost
of new technologies compared to existing or alternative energy sources. To
effectively evaluate the pace of change, ExxonMobil uses many scenarios to
help identify signposts that provide leading indicators of future developments
and allow for timely adjustments to future versions of the Outlook.

  

  

  

  

43

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Non-OECD countries projected to drive energy demand growth

Primary energy, quadrillion BTUs

![xom-20221231_g2.jpg](xom-20221231_g2.jpg)

Source: ExxonMobil 2022 Outlook for Energy

|

By 2050, the world's population is projected at around 9.7 billion people, or
about 2 billion more than in 2021. Coincident with this population increase,
the Outlook projects worldwide economic growth to average close to 2.5 percent
per year, with economic output growing by around 110 percent by 2050 compared
to 2021. As economies and populations grow, and as living standards improve
for billions of people, the need for energy is expected to continue to rise.
Even with significant efficiency gains, global energy demand is projected to
rise by almost 15 percent from 2021 to 2050. This increase in energy demand is
expected to be driven by developing countries (i.e., those that are not member
nations of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)).

  

As expanding prosperity drives global energy demand higher, increasing use of
energy-efficient technologies and practices as well as lower-emission products
will continue to help significantly reduce energy consumption and CO2
emissions per unit of economic output over time. Substantial efficiency gains
are likely in all key aspects of the world's economy through 2050, affecting
energy requirements for power generation, transportation, industrial
applications, and residential and commercial needs.  
  
Under our Outlook, global electricity demand is expected to increase over 75
percent from 2021 to 2050, with developing countries likely to account for
about 80 percent of the increase. Consistent with this projection, power
generation is expected to remain the largest and fastest growing major segment
of global primary energy demand, supported by a wide variety of energy
sources. The share of coal-fired generation is expected to decline
substantially and approach 15 percent of the world's electricity in 2050,
versus nearly 35 percent in 2021, in part due to policies to improve air
quality as well as reduce greenhouse gas emissions to address risks related to
climate change. From 2021 to 2050, the amount of electricity supplied using
natural gas, nuclear power, and renewables is expected to more than double,
accounting for the entire growth in electricity supplies and offsetting the
reduction of coal. Electricity from wind and solar is expected to increase
more than 550 percent, helping total renewables (including other sources,
e.g., hydropower) to account for over 80 percent of the increase in
electricity supplies worldwide through 2050. Total renewables are expected to
reach about 50 percent of global electricity supplies by 2050. Natural gas and
nuclear are expected to be about 25 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of
global electricity supplies by 2050. Supplies of electricity by energy type
will reflect significant differences across regions reflecting a wide range of
factors including the cost and availability of various energy supplies and
policy developments.

Under our Outlook, energy for transportation - including cars, trucks, ships,
trains and airplanes - is expected to increase by over 30 percent from 2021 to
2050. Transportation energy demand is expected to account for around 65
percent of the growth in liquid fuels demand worldwide over this period.
Light-duty vehicle demand for liquid fuels is projected to peak by around
2025, and then decline to levels seen in the early-2000s by 2050, as the
impact of better fuel economy and significant growth in electric cars, led by
China, Europe, and the United States, work to offset growth in the worldwide
car fleet of almost 70 percent. By 2050, light-duty vehicles are expected to
account for around 15 percent of global liquid fuels demand. During the same
time period, nearly all the world's commercial transportation fleets are
expected to continue to run on liquid fuels, including biofuels, which are
expected to be widely available and offer practical advantages in providing a
large quantity of energy in small volumes.

Almost half of the world's energy use is dedicated to industrial activity. As
the global middle class continues to grow, demand for durable products,
appliances, and consumable goods will increase. Industry uses energy products
both as a fuel and as a feedstock for chemicals, asphalt, lubricants, waxes,
and other specialty products. The Outlook anticipates technology advances, as
well as the increasing shift toward cleaner forms of energy, such as
electricity and natural gas, with coal declining. Demand for oil will continue
to grow as a feedstock for industry.

As populations grow and prosperity rises, more energy will be needed to power
homes, offices, schools, shopping centers, hospitals, etc. Combined
residential and commercial energy demand is projected to rise by around 15
percent through 2050. Led by the growing economies of developing nations,
average worldwide household electricity use will rise about 75 percent between
2021 and 2050.

44

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Liquid fuels provide the largest share of global energy supplies today
reflecting broad-based availability, affordability, ease of transportation,
and fitness as a practical solution to meet a wide variety of needs. By 2050,
global demand for liquid fuels is projected to grow to approximately 110
million oil equivalent barrels per day, an increase of about 17 percent from
2021. The non-OECD share of global liquid fuels demand is expected to increase
to nearly 70 percent by 2050, as liquid fuels demand in the OECD is expected
to decline by around 20 percent. Much of the global liquid fuels demand today
is met by crude production from conventional sources; these supplies will
remain important, and significant development activity is expected to offset
much of the natural declines from these fields. At the same time, a variety of
emerging supply sources - including tight oil, deepwater, oil sands, natural
gas liquids, and biofuels - are expected to grow to help meet rising demand.
The world's resource base is sufficient to meet projected demand through 2050
as technology advances continue to expand the availability of more economic
and lower-carbon supply options. However, timely investments will remain
critical to meeting global needs with reliable and affordable supplies.

Natural gas is a lower-emission, versatile and practical fuel for a wide
variety of applications, and it is expected to grow the most of any primary
energy type from 2021 to 2050, meeting about 40 percent of global energy
demand growth. Global natural gas demand is expected to rise nearly 25 percent
from 2021 to 2050, with around two-thirds of that increase coming from the
Asia Pacific region. Significant growth in supplies of unconventional gas -
the natural gas found in shale and other tight rock formations - will help
meet these needs. In total, about 50 percent of the growth in natural gas
supplies is expected to be from unconventional sources. At the same time,
conventionally-produced natural gas is likely to remain the cornerstone of
global supply, meeting around two-thirds of worldwide demand in 2050. LNG
trade will expand significantly, meeting about 50 percent of the increase in
global demand growth, with much of this supply expected to help meet rising
demand in Asia Pacific.

Oil and natural gas projected to play a critical role in the global energy mix

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Primary energy - Quadrillion Btu| Percent of primary energy  
  
![xom-20221231_g3.jpg](xom-20221231_g3.jpg)

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Source: ExxonMobil 2022 Outlook for Energy| Source: ExxonMobil 2022 Outlook
for Energy  
| | |  
  
The world's energy mix is highly diverse and will remain so through 2050. Oil
is expected to remain the largest source of energy with its share remaining
close to 30 percent in 2050. Coal and gas are the next largest sources of
energy today, with the share of natural gas growing to more than 25 percent by
2050, while the share of coal falls to about half that of natural gas. Nuclear
power is projected to grow, as many nations are likely to expand nuclear
capacity to address rising electricity needs as well as energy security and
environmental issues. Total renewable energy is expected to exceed 20 percent
of global energy by 2050, with other renewables (e.g., biomass, hydropower,
geothermal) contributing a combined share of more than 10 percent. Total
energy supplied from wind and solar is expected to increase rapidly, growing
over 480 percent from 2021 to 2050, when they are projected to be around 10
percent of the world energy mix.

45

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Decarbonization of industry activities will require a suite of nascent or
future lower-carbon technologies and supporting policies. Lower-emission
fuels, hydrogen-based fuels, and carbon capture and storage are three key
lower-carbon solutions needed to support a lower-emission future, in addition
to wind and solar. Along with electrification, lower-emission fuels are
expected to play an important role in decarbonization of the transportation
sector, particularly in hard-to-decarbonize areas, such as aviation. Low-
carbon hydrogen will be a key enabler replacing traditional furnace fuel to
decarbonize the industrial sector. Hydrogen and hydrogen-based fuels like
ammonia are also expected to make inroads into commercial transportation as
technology improves to lower its cost and policy develops to support the
needed infrastructure development. Carbon capture and storage on its own, or
in combination with hydrogen production, is among the few proven technologies
that could enable CO2 emission reductions from high-emitting and hard-to-
decarbonize sectors such as power generation and heavy industries, including
manufacturing, refining, and petrochemicals.

Significant oil and natural gas investment needed to meet projected global
demand

Projected oil supply and demand

Million barrels per day

![xom-20221231_g4.jpg](xom-20221231_g4.jpg)

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Excludes biofuels; IEA STEPS and IEA NZE Source: IEA WEO 2021; Outlook Source:
ExxonMobil 2022 Outlook for Energy; Average IPCC Lower 2°C Source: IPCC AR6
Scenarios Database hosted by IIASA release 1.0 average IPCC C3: 311 "Likely
below 2°C" scenarios used|  
  
Projected global natural gas supply and demand

Billion cubic feet per day

![xom-20221231_g5.jpg](xom-20221231_g5.jpg)

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
IEA STEPS and IEA NZE Source: IEA WEO 2021; Outlook Source: ExxonMobil 2022
Outlook for Energy; Average IPCC Lower 2°C Source: IPCC AR6 Scenarios Database
hosted by IIASA release 1.0 average IPCC C3: 311 "Likely below 2°C" scenarios
used|  
  
To meet this projected demand under our Outlook and the IEA's Stated Policies
Scenario (STEPS), the Corporation anticipates that the world's available oil
and gas resource base will grow, not only from new discoveries, but also from
increases in previously discovered fields. Technology will underpin these
increases. The investments to develop and supply resources to meet global
demand through 2050 will be significant, and would be needed to meet even the
rapidly declining demand for oil and gas envisioned in the IEA's Net Zero
Emissions by 2050 scenario.

International accords and underlying regional and national regulations
covering greenhouse gas emissions continue to evolve with uncertain timing and
outcome, making it difficult to predict their business impact. For many years,
the Corporation has taken into account policies established to reduce energy-
related greenhouse gas emissions in its long-term Outlook. The climate accord
reached at the Conference of the Parties (COP 21) in Paris set many new goals,
and many related policies are still emerging. Our Outlook reflects an
environment with increasingly stringent climate policies and is consistent
with the global aggregation of Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs),
submitted by the nations that are signatories to the Paris Agreement, as
available at the end of 2021. Our Outlook seeks to identify potential impacts
of climate-related government policies, which often target specific sectors.
For purposes of the Outlook, a proxy cost on energy-related CO2 emissions is
assumed, based on regional considerations and relative levels of economic
development, and by 2050, reaches up to $150 per metric ton for OECD nations
and up to $100 per metric ton for non-OECD nations. China and other leading
non-OECD nations are expected to trail OECD policy initiatives. Nevertheless,
as people and nations look for ways to reduce risks of global climate change,
they will continue to need practical solutions that do not jeopardize the
affordability or reliability of the energy they need. The Corporation
continues to monitor the updates to the NDCs that nations provided around COP
27 in Egypt in November 2022 as well as other policy developments in light of
net-zero ambitions formulated by some nations.

The information provided in the Outlook includes ExxonMobil's internal
estimates and projections based upon internal data and analyses as well as
publicly available information from external sources including the
International Energy Agency.

46

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Progress Reducing Emissions

The Corporation's strategy seeks to maximize the advantages of our scale,
business integration, leading technology, functional excellence, and our
people to build globally competitive businesses that lead industry in earnings
and cash flow growth across a range of future scenarios. We strive to play a
leading role in the energy transition, bringing to bear these same advantages
while retaining investment flexibility across a portfolio of evolving
opportunities to grow shareholder value.

With advances in technology and the support of clear and consistent government
policies, we aim to achieve net-zero operated Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas
emissions by 2050. To this end, we have taken a comprehensive approach to
create greenhouse gas emission-reduction roadmaps for our major operated
assets. The roadmaps build on the company's 2030 emission-reduction plans and,
notably, include reaching net-zero emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) in our
unconventional Permian Basin operated assets by 2030. We completed these
roadmaps in 2022. Many of the required reduction steps are unaffordable with
today's technology and policy support. We plan to update the roadmaps as
needed to reflect technology, policy, and other necessary developments,
including the development and acquisition of major operated assets.

Compared to 2016 levels, our 2030 emission-reduction plans include a 20-30
percent reduction in corporate-wide greenhouse gas intensity, 40-50 percent
reduction in upstream greenhouse gas intensity, 70-80 percent reduction in
company-wide methane intensity, and 60-70 percent reduction in corporate-wide
hydrocarbon flaring intensity. In achieving these objectives, we also expect
to see absolute reduction in:

•Corporate-wide greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 20 percent;

•Upstream greenhouse gas emissions of approximately 30 percent;

•Corporate-wide hydrocarbon flaring of approximately 60 percent;

•Corporate-wide methane emissions by approximately 70 percent; and

•World Bank Zero Routine Flaring by 2030.

These emission-reduction plans cover Scope 1 and 2 emissions from assets we
operate.

Since formally launching ExxonMobil's Low Carbon Solutions business in early
2021, the Corporation has significantly grown the pipeline of emission-
reduction opportunities in carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, and lower-
emission fuels. Low Carbon Solutions leverages the Corporation's unique
combination of existing assets, technical capabilities, project management
skills, and broad relationships with industry and governments to accelerate
emission reductions for customers and help to reduce emissions in our existing
businesses.

The Corporation plans to invest in initiatives to lower greenhouse gas
emissions. These investments are designed to reduce emissions in the company's
operations and are also directed toward reducing others' emissions through
commercializing and scaling carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, and lower-
emission fuels. Policy support, along with technology advancements, are
important to the development and deployment of lower-emission technologies
necessary for a net-zero future.

Recent Business Environment

Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, many companies in the industry invested below
the levels needed to maintain or increase production capacity to meet
anticipated demand. During the COVID-19 pandemic, this decline in investments
accelerated as industry revenue collapsed resulting in underinvestment and
supply tightness as demand for petroleum and petrochemical products recovered.
In addition, industry rationalization of refining assets resulted in more than
3 million barrels per day of capacity being taken offline. Across late 2021
and the first half of 2022, these reductions, along with supply chain
constraints, and a continuation of demand recovery led to a steady increase in
oil and natural gas prices and refining margins.

Demand for petroleum and petrochemical products grew in 2022, with the
Corporation's financial results benefiting from stronger prices and margins,
notably for crude oil and natural gas as well as refining products. The rate
and pace of recovery, however, has varied across geographies and business
lines, with industry Chemical margins falling below the bottom of the 10-year
range late in 2022 reflecting weakening global demand and capacity additions.
Commodity and product prices are expected to remain volatile given the current
global economic uncertainty and geopolitical events affecting supply and
demand.

The general rate of inflation across major countries experienced a brief
decline in the initial stage of the COVID-19 pandemic, before starting to
increase steadily in 2021 due to an imbalance in supply and demand. The
underlying factors include, but are not limited to, time cycle of capacity
investments, supply chain disruptions, shipping bottlenecks, labor
constraints, and side effects from monetary and fiscal expansions.
Inflationary pressure intensified in 2022 with additional impacts from the
Russia-Ukraine conflict, and currently remains elevated despite policy
tightening by major central banks and a moderating pace of world economic
expansion. The Corporation closely monitors market trends and works to
mitigate both operating and capital cost impacts in all price environments.

47

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Organizational changes implemented over the past several years enabled the
Corporation to realize $7 billion of structural cost savings(1) versus 2019,
through increased operational efficiencies and reduced overhead costs.
Included in these savings is the completion of the workforce reduction
programs, which are estimated to generate savings of approximately $2 billion
per year compared to 2019 from lower employee and contractor costs. The
company continues to take actions to streamline its business structure to
improve effectiveness and reduce costs. The changes more fully leverage global
functional capabilities, improve line of sight to markets, and enhance
resource allocation to the highest corporate priorities.

(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of structural cost savings.

Russia-Ukraine Conflict

In response to Russia's military action in Ukraine, the Corporation announced
in early 2022 that it planned to discontinue operations on the Sakhalin-1
project ("Sakhalin") and develop steps to exit the venture. The Corporation's
first-quarter results included after-tax charges of $3.4 billion largely
representing the impairment of its operations related to Sakhalin (refer to
Note 2 for further information on Russia). While the Corporation's affiliate
was in force majeure due to the impact of global sanctions, it continued to
make concerted attempts to engage in good-faith exit discussions with the
Russian government and all Sakhalin partners. The Corporation remained focused
on safety of people, protection of the environment, and integrity of
operations. Effective October 14, through two decrees the Russian government
unilaterally terminated the Corporation's interests in Sakhalin, transferring
operations to a Russian operator.

The Corporation's fourth-quarter results include an after-tax benefit of $1.1
billion largely reflecting the impact of the expropriation on the company's
various obligations related to Sakhalin. The Corporation's exit from the
project results in approximately 150 million oil-equivalent barrels no longer
qualifying as proved reserves at year-end 2022.

The Corporation holds a 25 percent interest in Tengizchevroil, LLP (TCO),
which operates the Tengiz and Korolev oil fields in Kazakhstan, and a 16.8
percent working interest in the Kashagan field in Kazakhstan. Oil production
from those operations is exported through the Caspian Pipeline Consortium
(CPC), in which the Corporation holds a 7.5 percent interest. CPC traverses
parts of Kazakhstan and Russia to tanker-loading facilities on the Russian
coast of the Black Sea. In the event that Russia takes countermeasures in
response to existing sanctions related to its military actions in Ukraine, it
is possible that the transportation of Kazakhstan oil through the CPC pipeline
could be disrupted, curtailed, temporarily suspended, or otherwise restricted.
In such a case, the Corporation could experience a loss of cash flows of
uncertain duration from its operations in Kazakhstan. For reference, after-tax
earnings related to the Corporation's interests in Kazakhstan in 2022 were
approximately $2.5 billion, and its share of combined oil and gas production
was approximately 246 thousand oil-equivalent barrels per day.

Additional European Taxes on the Energy Sector

On October 6, 2022, European Union ("EU") Member States adopted an EU Council
Regulation which, along with other measures, introduced a new tax described as
an emergency intervention to address high energy prices. This regulation
imposed a mandatory tax on certain companies active in the crude petroleum,
coal, natural gas, and refinery sectors. The regulation required Member States
to levy a minimum 33 percent tax on in-scope companies' 2022 and/or 2023
"surplus profits", defined in the regulation as taxable profits exceeding 120
percent of the annual average profits during the 2018-2021 period. EU Member
States were required to implement the tax, or an equivalent national measure,
by December 31, 2022. The enactment of these regulations by Member States
resulted in an after-tax charge of approximately $1.8 billion to the
Corporation's fourth-quarter 2022 results, mainly reflected in the line
"Income tax expense (benefit)" on the Consolidated Statement of Income.

The future impact of this regulation and other measures directed at the energy
sector which were imposed by EU Member States and the UK over the last few
months could be a reduction to earnings of up to $2 billion depending on
commodity prices and levels of taxable income.

48

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

BUSINESS RESULTS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | |  
Upstream| | | |  
| | | |  
  
ExxonMobil continues to sustain a diverse growth portfolio of exploration and
development opportunities, which enables the Corporation to be selective,
maximizing shareholder value and mitigating political and technical risks.
ExxonMobil's fundamental strategies guide our global Upstream business,
including capturing material and accretive opportunities to continually high-
grade the resource portfolio, selectively developing attractive oil and
natural gas resources, developing and applying high-impact technologies, and
pursuing productivity and efficiency gains as well as a reduction in
greenhouse gas emissions. These strategies are underpinned by a relentless
focus on operational excellence, development of our employees, and investment
in the communities within which we operate.

As future development projects and drilling activities bring new production
online, the Corporation expects a shift in the geographic mix and in the type
of opportunities from which volumes are produced. Based on current investment
plans, the proportion of oil-equivalent production from the Americas is
generally expected to increase over the next several years. About half of the
Corporation's global production comes from unconventional, deepwater, and LNG
resources. This proportion is generally expected to grow over the next few
years.

The Upstream capital program continues to prioritize low cost-of-supply
opportunities. ExxonMobil has a strong pipeline of development projects
including continued growth in Guyana, Brazil, the Permian Basin, as well as
LNG expansion opportunities in Qatar, Mozambique, Papua New Guinea, and the
United States.

The Corporation anticipates several projects will come online over the next
few years providing additional production capacity. However, actual volumes
will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups;
operational outages; reservoir performance; regulatory changes; the impact of
fiscal and commercial terms; asset sales; weather events; price effects on
production sharing contracts; changes in the amount and timing of capital
investments that may vary depending on the oil and gas price environment;
international trade patterns and relations; and other factors described in
Item 1A. Risk Factors.

ExxonMobil believes prices over the long term will continue to be driven by
market supply and demand, with the demand side largely being a function of
general economic activities, levels of prosperity, technology advances,
consumer preference and government policies. On the supply side, prices may be
significantly impacted by political events, the actions of OPEC and other
large government resource owners, alternative energy sources, and other
factors.

  

Key Recent Events

Significant progress was made on key new developments during 2022.

Guyana: Exploration success continued with 10 additional discoveries in 2022
in the Stabroek block. The Liza Phase 2 Unity floating production, storage and
offloading vessel started production in February 2022, and our combined Liza
Phase 1 and 2 developments produced above previous expectations, averaging
more than 360 thousand oil-equivalent barrels per day in the fourth quarter.
On Payara, the third project, development drilling continued and anticipated
start-up timing has been accelerated to year-end 2023. Yellowtail is the
fourth and largest world-class development project and is expected to achieve
first oil in 2025.

Brazil: Development work is progressing on the Bacalhau Phase 1 project.

Permian: Production volumes averaged about 550 thousand oil-equivalent barrels
per day (koebd) in 2022, approximately 90 koebd higher than the previous year.
The Corporation was successful in increasing drilling performance and
continuing to improve capital efficiency. ExxonMobil previously announced
plans to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) from our
operated unconventional operations in the Permian Basin by 2030. Towards this
objective, we advanced several emissions-reduction initiatives in 2022
including elimination of all routine flaring(1), progress with pneumatic
device replacement, electrification of equipment and enhancements to methane
emissions detection technology.

LNG: ExxonMobil continued work to expand its LNG portfolio and secured
participation in the Qatar North Field East project, which will increase
ExxonMobil's participation in Qatar LNG production from 52 to 60 million
metric tons per year. The Coral South Floating LNG development began
production in October 2022 as the first development in Mozambique's Rovuma
Basin, and is expected to produce up to 3.4 million metric tons of LNG per
year. The company also completed key commercial milestones to begin the Papua
New Guinea expansion, and the Golden Pass LNG project remains on schedule for
2024 start-up in the U.S. Gulf Coast.

(1) References to routine flaring herein are consistent with the World Bank's
Zero Routine Flaring Reduction Partnership's (GGFRP) principle of routine
flaring, and excludes safety and non-routine flaring.

49

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Upstream Financial Results

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Earnings (loss) (U.S. GAAP)

|  | |  | |  
United States| 11,728 | | | 3,663 | | | (19,385)|  
Non-U.S.| 24,751 | | | 12,112 | | | (645)|  
Total| 36,479 | | | 15,775 | | | (20,030)|  
| | | | |  
  
Identified Items (1)

| | | | |  
United States| 299 | | | (263)| | | (17,092)|  
Non-U.S.| (3,238)| | | (280)| | | (2,602)|  
Total| (2,939)| | | (543)| | | (19,694)|  
| | | | |  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items (1) (Non-GAAP)

| | | | |  
United States| 11,429 | | | 3,926 | | | (2,293)|  
Non-U.S.| 27,989 | | | 12,392 | | | 1,957 |  
Total| 39,418 | | | 16,318 | | | (336)|  
| | | | |  
  
(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.

| | | | |  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2022 Upstream Earnings Factor Analysis

| | | |  
(millions of dollars)| | | |  
  
![xom-20221231_g6.jpg](xom-20221231_g6.jpg)

Price - Higher realizations increased earnings by $21,290 million reflecting
tight supply and recovering demand, and favorable mark-to-market impacts of
$2,800 million.

Volume/Mix - Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $110 million. The
earnings benefit from volume growth in Guyana and the Permian was offset by
the volume loss from divestments, the Russia expropriation, and other impacts
including weather-related downtime.

Other - All other items decreased earnings by $880 million as strong cost
control partly offset impacts from inflation and increased activity.

Identified Items(1) - 2021 $(543) million loss as a result of impairments of
$(752) million and contractual provisions of $(250) million, partly offset by
a $459 million gain from the U.K Central and Northern North Sea divestment;
2022 $(2,939) million loss mainly driven by the Russia expropriation $(2,185)
million and impacts from additional European taxes $(1,415) million, partly
offset by gains of $886 million on the sale of the Romania, U.S. Barnett
Shale, and XTO Energy Canada assets.

(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.

  

50

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2021 Upstream Earnings Factor Analysis

| | | |  
(millions of dollars)| | | |  
  
![xom-20221231_g7.jpg](xom-20221231_g7.jpg)

Price - Higher realizations increased earnings by $14,960 million.

Volume/Mix - Unfavorable volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $340
million.

Other - All other items increased earnings by $2,040 million, primarily driven
by lower expenses of $1,360 million and one-time favorable tax items.

Identified Items(1) - 2020 $(19,694) million loss primarily reflected
impairments of dry gas assets; 2021 $(543) million loss was as a result of
impairments of $(752) million and contractual provisions of $(250) million,
partly offset by a $459 million gain from the U.K Central and Northern North
Sea divestment.

(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.

  

Upstream Operational Results

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | | |  
  
Net production of crude oil, natural gas liquids, bitumen and synthetic oil

(thousands of barrels daily)

|  | |  | |  | | | |  
United States| 776| | 721| | 685| | | |  
Canada/Other Americas| 588| | 560| | 536| | | |  
Europe| 4| | 22| | 30| | | |  
Africa| 238| | 248| | 312| | | |  
Asia| 705| | 695| | 742| | | |  
Australia/Oceania| 43| | 43| | 44| | | |  
Worldwide| 2,354| | 2,289| | 2,349| | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
Net natural gas production available for sale

(millions of cubic feet daily)

|  | |  | |  | | | |  
United States| 2,551| | 2,746| | 2,691| | | |  
Canada/Other Americas| 148| | 195| | 277| | | |  
Europe| 667| | 808| | 789| | | |  
Africa| 71| | 43| | 9| | | |  
Asia| 3,418| | 3,465| | 3,486| | | |  
Australia/Oceania| 1,440| | 1,280| | 1,219| | | |  
Worldwide| 8,295| | 8,537| | 8,471| | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
Oil-equivalent production (2)

(thousands of oil-equivalent barrels daily)

| 3,737| | 3,712| | 3,761| | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
(2) Natural gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic
feet per one thousand barrels.

| | | |  
  
51

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Upstream Additional Information|  | |  
(thousands of barrels daily)| 2022| | 2021  
  
Volumes Reconciliation (Oil-equivalent production) (1)

|  | |  
Prior Year| 3,712 | | | 3,761 |  
Entitlements - Net Interest| (44)| | | (1)|  
Entitlements - Price / Spend / Other| (34)| | | (97)|  
Government Mandates| 80 | | | 8 |  
Divestments| (71)| | | (24)|  
Growth / Other| 94 | | | 65 |  
Current Year| 3,737 | | | 3,712 |  
| | |  
  
(1) Natural gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic
feet per one thousand barrels.  
  
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2022 versus 2021

|

2022 production of 3.7 million oil-equivalent barrels per day increased 25
thousand barrels per day from 2021. Growth in the Permian and Guyana, and
easing government-mandated curtailments more than offset the impacts from
divestments, the Russia expropriation, and lower entitlements due to higher
prices.  
  
2021 versus 2020

|

2021 production of 3.7 million oil-equivalent barrels per day decreased 49
thousand barrels per day from 2020, as higher demand and growth were more than
offset by lower entitlements due to higher prices, decline, and divestments.  
  
  

Listed below are descriptions of ExxonMobil's volumes reconciliation factors,
which are provided to facilitate understanding of the terms.

Entitlements - Net Interest are changes to ExxonMobil's share of production
volumes caused by non-operational changes to volume-determining factors. These
factors consist of net interest changes specified in Production Sharing
Contracts (PSCs), which typically occur when cumulative investment returns or
production volumes achieve defined thresholds, changes in equity upon
achieving pay-out in partner investment carry situations, equity
redeterminations as specified in venture agreements, or as a result of the
termination or expiry of a concession. Once a net interest change has
occurred, it typically will not be reversed by subsequent events, such as
lower crude oil prices.

Entitlements - Price, Spend and Other are changes to ExxonMobil's share of
production volumes resulting from temporary changes to non-operational volume-
determining factors. These factors include changes in oil and gas prices or
spending levels from one period to another. According to the terms of
contractual arrangements or government royalty regimes, price or spending
variability can increase or decrease royalty burdens and/or volumes
attributable to ExxonMobil. For example, at higher prices, fewer barrels are
required for ExxonMobil to recover its costs. These effects generally vary
from period to period with field spending patterns or market prices for oil
and natural gas. Such factors can also include other temporary changes in net
interest as dictated by specific provisions in production agreements.

Government Mandates are changes to ExxonMobil's sustainable production levels
as a result of temporary non-operational production limits or sanctions
imposed by governments, generally upon a country, sector, type or method of
production.

Divestments are reductions in ExxonMobil's production arising from commercial
arrangements to fully or partially reduce equity in a field or asset in
exchange for financial or other economic consideration.

Growth and Other factors comprise all other operational and non-operational
factors not covered by the above definitions that may affect volumes
attributable to ExxonMobil. Such factors include, but are not limited to,
production enhancements from project and work program activities, acquisitions
including additions from asset exchanges, downtime, market demand, natural
field decline, and any fiscal or commercial terms that do not affect
entitlements.

  

52

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | |  
Energy Products| | | |  
| | | |  
  
ExxonMobil's Energy Products is one of the largest, most integrated businesses
of its kind among international oil companies, with significant representation
across the entire fuels value chain including refining, logistics, trading,
and marketing. This segment brings fuels and aromatics value chains together,
recognizing their history of working closely to optimize manufacturing sites,
and includes catalysts and licensing.

With the largest refining footprint among international oil companies,
ExxonMobil's Energy Products earnings are closely tied to industry refining
margins. Refining margins are largely driven by differences in commodity
prices and are a function of the difference between what a refinery pays for
its raw materials and the market prices for the products produced. Crude oil
and many products are widely traded with published prices, including those
quoted on multiple exchanges around the world (e.g. New York Mercantile
Exchange and Intercontinental Exchange). Prices for these commodities are
determined by the global marketplace and are influenced by many factors,
including global and regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels,
industry refinery operations, import/export balances, currency fluctuations,
seasonal demand, weather, and political considerations. While industry
refining margins significantly impact Energy Products earnings, strong
operations performance, product mix optimization, and disciplined cost control
are also critical to strong financial performance.

Refining margins increased sharply in 2022, well above the top of the 10-year
historical range (2010-2019). Demand for gasoline and diesel recovered to pre-
pandemic levels, while jet fuel demand remained below historical levels
reflecting continued COVID-19 impacts. Refinery shutdowns and lack of
investments driven by the pandemic reduced industry capacity and resulted in a
tight market.

Refining margins are anticipated to remain volatile in the near term as a
result of significant global factors including China demand recovery and
export quotas, recession fears, impacts from price caps and sanctions, low
inventory levels, and new refining capacity additions.

  

Key Recent Events

Future capacity additions: The company mechanically completed its Beaumont
Refinery expansion. This expansion will bring 250,000 barrels per day of crude
distillation capacity to the market in first quarter 2023.

Strathcona Renewable Diesel Project: Progressed 20,000 barrels per day
renewable diesel project, culminating in final investment decision in January
2023 for the largest such facility in Canada.

Billings divestment(1): In October 2022, ExxonMobil and its affiliates reached
an agreement with Par Pacific Holdings for the sale of the Billings Refinery
and select midstream assets in Montana and Washington.

Italy Fuels divestment(1): In December 2022, ExxonMobil reached an agreement
with Italiana Petroli to sell its interest in the Trecate Refinery joint
venture, select midstream assets, and the fuels marketing business.

Esso Thailand divestment(1): In January 2023, ExxonMobil reached an agreement
with Bangchak Corporation to sell its interest in Esso Thailand, which
includes the Sriracha Refinery, select distribution terminals, and a network
of Esso-branded retail stations.

  

(1) The Corporation expects the transactions to close in 2023.

  

  

53

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Energy Products Financial Results

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Earnings (loss) (U.S. GAAP)

|  | |  | |  
United States| 8,340 | | | 668 | | | (1,342)|  
Non-U.S.| 6,626 | | | (1,014)| | | (1,230)|  
Total| 14,966 | | | (347)| | | (2,572)|  
| | | | |  
  
Identified Items (1)

| | | | |  
United States| (58)| | | -- | | | (4)|  
Non-U.S.| (626)| | | -- | | | (636)|  
Total| (684)| | | -- | | | (640)|  
| | | | |  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items (1) (Non-GAAP)

| | | | |  
United States| 8,398 | | | 668 | | | (1,338)|  
Non-U.S.| 7,252 | | | (1,014)| | | (594)|  
Total| 15,650 | | | (347)| | | (1,932)|  
| | | | |  
  
(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.

| | | | |  
Due to rounding, numbers presented may not add up precisely to the totals
indicated.  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2022 Energy Products Earnings Factor Analysis

| | | |  
(millions of dollars)| | | |  
  
![xom-20221231_g8.jpg](xom-20221231_g8.jpg)

Margins - Increased earnings by $14,360 million as industry refining
conditions significantly improved from increased demand and low inventories,
as well as stronger trading and marketing margins.

Volume/Mix - Increased earnings by $1,060 million reflecting improved product
yields and higher throughput.

Other - Increased earnings by $570 million due to favorable foreign exchange
and year-end inventory effects.

Identified Items (1) - 2022 $(684) million loss was driven by additional
European taxes on the energy sector and impairments.

(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.

  

  

54

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2021 Energy Products Earnings Factor Analysis

| | | |  
(millions of dollars)| | | |  
  
![xom-20221231_g9.jpg](xom-20221231_g9.jpg)

Margins - Increased earnings by $1,360 million as industry refining conditions
improved.

Volume/Mix - Decreased earnings by $90 million reflecting higher planned
maintenance.

Other - Increased earnings by $320 million due to lower expenses, partly
offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impacts.

Identified Items (1) - 2020 $(640) million loss was primarily as a result of
impairments and unfavorable tax items.

(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.

  

Energy Products Operational Results

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(thousands of barrels daily)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | | |  
Refinery throughput| | | | | | | | | |  
United States| | 1,702| | 1,623| | 1,549| | | |  
Canada| | 418| | 379| | 340| | | |  
Europe| | 1,192| | 1,210| | 1,173| | | |  
Asia Pacific| | 539| | 571| | 553| | | |  
Other| | 179| | 162| | 158| | | |  
Worldwide| | 4,030| | 3,945| | 3,773| | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
Energy Products sales (2)

| | | | | | | | | |  
United States| | 2,426| | 2,267| | 2,159| | | |  
Non-U.S.| | 2,921| | 2,863| | 2,704| | | |  
Worldwide| | 5,347| | 5,130| | 4,863| | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Gasoline, naphthas| | 2,232| | 2,158| | 1,994| | | |  
Heating oils, kerosene, diesel| | 1,774| | 1,749| | 1,751| | | |  
Aviation fuels| | 338| | 220| | 213| | | |  
Heavy fuels| | 235| | 269| | 249| | | |  
Other energy products| | 768| | 734| | 656| | | |  
Worldwide| | 5,347| | 5,130| | 4,863| | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
(2) Data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.

| | | |  
  
55

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | |  
Chemical Products| | | |  
| | | |  
  
ExxonMobil is a leading global manufacturer and marketer of petrochemicals
that support modern living. Chemical Products helps meet society's evolving
needs by providing a wide range of innovative, valuable products in an
efficient and responsible manner. This is supported by our unique combination
of industry-leading scale and integration along with ExxonMobil's proprietary
technology, which is fundamental to producing performance products that enable
lighter, more durable solutions that use less material, save energy, and
reduce costs and waste. These competitive advantages are underpinned by
operational excellence, advantaged investments, and cost discipline. This
segment includes olefins, polyolefins, and intermediates.

Over the long term, worldwide demand for chemicals is expected to grow faster
than the economy as a whole, driven by global population growth, an expanding
middle class, and improving living standards. Chemical Products integration
with refineries, performance product mix, and project execution capability
improves returns on investments across a range of market environments.

In 2022, chemical industry margins decreased, falling below the 10-year
historical range (2010-2019), reflecting bottom-of-cycle conditions in Asia
Pacific, increased industry capacity, and the closure of the regional pricing
disconnect between Asia and the Atlantic Basin. Despite the decline in
industry margins, Chemical Products earnings remained above the segment's
10-year average, benefiting from strong reliability, expense management, and
mix of performance products.

  

Key Recent Events

Polypropylene expansion: ExxonMobil successfully started up a new
polypropylene unit in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. This increased capacity by
450,000 metric tons per year, meeting growing demand for high-performance,
lightweight, and durable plastics.

Advanced recycling: ExxonMobil started up one of North America's largest
advanced recycling units at our integrated manufacturing complex in Baytown,
Texas. This facility uses proprietary technology to break down hard-to-recycle
plastics and transform them into raw materials for new products. It is capable
of processing more than 80 million pounds of plastic waste per year,
supporting a circular economy for post-use plastics and helping divert plastic
waste currently sent to landfills.

Future capacity additions: ExxonMobil is making additional, long-term chemical
investments with our Chemical expansion in Baytown, Texas, which will produce
performance chemicals such as Vistamaxx™ polymers and Elevexx™ linear alpha
olefins, and in China, where we continue to progress construction of our
multi-billion dollar chemical complex in the Dayawan Petrochemical Industrial
Park in Huizhou, Guangdong Province.

56

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Chemical Products Financial Results

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Earnings (loss) (U.S. GAAP)

|  | |  | |  
United States| 2,328 | | | 3,697 | | | 1,196 |  
Non-U.S.| 1,215 | | | 3,292 | | | 1,061 |  
Total| 3,543 | | | 6,989 | | | 2,257 |  
| | | | |  
  
Identified Items (1)

| | | | |  
United States| -- | | | -- | | | (90)|  
Non-U.S.| -- | | | -- | | | (15)|  
Total| -- | | | -- | | | (105)|  
| | | | |  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items (1) (Non-GAAP)

| | | | |  
United States| 2,328 | | | 3,697 | | | 1,286 |  
Non-U.S.| 1,215 | | | 3,292 | | | 1,076 |  
Total| 3,543 | | | 6,989 | | | 2,362 |  
| | | | |  
  
(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.  
  
| | | | |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2022 Chemical Products Earnings Factor Analysis

| | | |  
(millions of dollars)| | | |  
  
![xom-20221231_g10.jpg](xom-20221231_g10.jpg)

Margins - Lower margins decreased earnings by $3,030 million with
normalization of regional prices during the year, increased supply, and
bottom-of-cycle conditions in Asia Pacific.

Volume/Mix - Product mix decreased earnings by $170 million.

Other - All other items decreased earnings by $250 million primarily as a
result of higher expenses from production capacity additions, and foreign
exchange effects from a stronger U.S. dollar.

57

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2021 Chemical Products Earnings Factor Analysis

| | | |  
(millions of dollars)| | | |  
  
![xom-20221231_g11.jpg](xom-20221231_g11.jpg)

Margins - Stronger margins increased earnings by $4,370 million.

Volume/Mix - Higher volumes increased earnings by $130 million.

Other - All other items increased earnings by $130 million primarily as a
result of lower expenses.

Identified Items (1) - 2020 $(105) million loss was driven by impairments.

(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.

  

Chemical Products Operational Results

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(thousands of metric tons)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Chemical prime product sales (2)

| | | | | |  
United States| | 7,270 | | | 7,017 | | | 6,602 |  
Non-U.S.| | 11,897 | | | 12,126 | | | 12,186 |  
Worldwide| | 19,167 | | | 19,142 | | | 18,787 |  
| | | | | |  
  
(2) Data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.  
  
Due to rounding, numbers presented may not add up precisely to the totals
indicated.| | | | | |  
  
58

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | |  
Specialty Products| | | |  
| | | |  
  
ExxonMobil Specialty Products is a combination of business units that
manufacture and market a range of performance products including high-quality
lubricants, basestocks, waxes, synthetics, elastomers, and resins. Leveraging
ExxonMobil's proprietary technologies, Specialty Products focuses on providing
performance products that help customers improve efficiency in the
transportation and industrial sectors.

Demand for lubricants is expected to remain strong and grow in the industrial,
aviation, and marine sectors. Specialty Products is well-positioned to help
meet that demand through advantaged projects that leverage ExxonMobil's
integration and world-class brands, such as Mobil 1.

In 2021, ExxonMobil completed the acquisition of Materia, a U.S.-based
specialty chemical company. This business, built on proprietary technology, is
now a part of the Specialty Products segment. Materia's new class of polymers
has properties well-suited for infrastructure, oil and gas, and mobility
segments, notably wind turbine blades, steel rebar replacement, and anti-
corrosion paints. Plans are being progressed to bring the product to market at
scale.

  

Key Recent Events

Singapore Resid Upgrade Project: Progressed project which will leverage two
proprietary technologies to upgrade fuel oil to Group II lubes and clean
products, further strengthening ExxonMobil's position as the largest basestock
producer in the world.

  

59

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Specialty Products Financial Results

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Earnings (loss) (U.S. GAAP)

|  | |  | |  
United States| 1,190 | | | 1,452 | | | 571 |  
Non-U.S.| 1,225 | | | 1,807 | | | 630 |  
Total| 2,415 | | | 3,259 | | | 1,201 |  
| | | | |  
  
Identified Items (1)

| | | | |  
United States| -- | | | 498 | | | -- |  
Non-U.S.| (40)| | | 136 | | | (228)|  
Total| (40)| | | 634 | | | (228)|  
| | | | |  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items (1) (Non-GAAP)

| | | | |  
United States| 1,190 | | | 954 | | | 571 |  
Non-U.S.| 1,265 | | | 1,672 | | | 858 |  
Total| 2,455 | | | 2,625 | | | 1,429 |  
| | | | |  
  
(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.

| | | | |  
Due to rounding, numbers presented may not add up precisely to the totals
indicated.| | | | |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2022 Specialty Products Earnings Factor Analysis

| | | |  
(millions of dollars)| | | |  
  
![xom-20221231_g12.jpg](xom-20221231_g12.jpg)

Margins - Margins decreased earnings by $220 million driven by higher feed
costs and energy prices.

Volume/Mix - Higher volumes increased earnings by $20 million on robust
demand.

Other - All other items increased earnings by $30 million primarily as a
result of positive year-end inventory effects, offset by increased expenses
from higher maintenance and inflation, and unfavorable foreign exchange
impacts.

Identified Items (1) - 2021 $634 million gain resulted from the Santoprene
divestment; 2022 $(40) million loss from impairments.

(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.

60

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2021 Specialty Products Earnings Factor Analysis

| | | |  
(millions of dollars)| | | |  
  
![xom-20221231_g13.jpg](xom-20221231_g13.jpg)

Margins - Stronger margins, particularly for basestocks, increased earnings by
$680 million.

Volume/Mix - Higher volumes increased earnings by $300 million.

Other - All other items increased earnings by $220 million primarily as a
result of lower expenses.

Identified Items (1) - 2020 $(228) million loss was driven by impairments;
2021 $634 million gain came from the Santoprene divestment.

(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.

  

Specialty Products Operational Results

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(thousands of metric tons)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Specialty Products sales (2)

| | | | | |  
United States| | 2,049 | | | 1,943 | | | 1,897 |  
Non-U.S.| | 5,762 | | | 5,723 | | | 5,340 |  
Worldwide| | 7,810 | | | 7,666 | | | 7,237 |  
| | | | | |  
  
(2) Data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.  
  
Due to rounding, numbers presented may not add up precisely to the totals
indicated.| | | | | |  
  
61

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | |  
Corporate and Financing| | |  
| | | |  
  
Corporate and Financing is comprised of corporate activities that support the
Corporation's operating segments and ExxonMobil's Low Carbon Solutions
business. Corporate activities include general administrative support
functions, financing and insurance activities. Low Carbon Solutions activities
will be included in Corporate and Financing until the business is established
with a material level of assets and customer contracts.

  

Corporate and Financing Financial Results

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Earnings (loss) (U.S. GAAP)| (1,663)| | | (2,636)| | | (3,296)|  
  
Identified Items (1)

| 302 | | | (64)| | | (361)|  
  
Earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items (1) (Non-GAAP)

| (1,965)| | | (2,572)| | | (2,935)|  
| | | | |  
  
(1) Refer to Frequently Used Terms for definition of Identified Items and
earnings (loss) excluding Identified Items.  
  
  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2022

|

Corporate and Financing expenses were $1,663 million in 2022 compared to
$2,636 million in 2021, with the decrease mainly due to lower pension-related
expenses, favorable one-time tax impacts, and lower financing costs.  
  
2021

|

Corporate and Financing expenses were $2,636 million in 2021 compared to
$3,296 million in 2020, with the decrease mainly due to the absence of prior
year severance costs and lower financing costs.  
  
  

62

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Sources and Uses of Cash| |  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Net cash provided by/(used in)|  | |  | |  
Operating activities| 76,797 | | | 48,129 | | | 14,668 |  
Investing activities| (14,742)| | | (10,235)| | | (18,459)|  
Financing activities| (39,114)| | | (35,423)| | | 5,285 |  
Effect of exchange rate changes| (78)| | | (33)| | | (219)|  
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents| 22,863 | | | 2,438 | | |
1,275 |  
| | | | |  
Total cash and cash equivalents (December 31)| 29,665 | | | 6,802 | | | 4,364
|  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
  
  

Total cash and cash equivalents were $29.7 billion at the end of 2022, up
$22.9 billion from the prior year. The major sources of funds in 2022 were net
income including noncontrolling interests of $57.6 billion, the adjustment for
the noncash provision of $24.0 billion for depreciation and depletion,
proceeds from asset sales of $5.2 billion, and other investing activities of
$1.5 billion. The major uses of funds included spending for additions to
property, plant and equipment of $18.4 billion; dividends to shareholders of
$14.9 billion; the purchase of ExxonMobil stock of $15.2 billion; a debt
reduction of $7.2 billion; and additional investments and advances of $3.1
billion.

Total cash and cash equivalents were $6.8 billion at the end of 2021, up $2.4
billion from the prior year. The major sources of funds in 2021 were net
income including noncontrolling interests of $23.6 billion, the adjustment for
the noncash provision of $20.6 billion for depreciation and depletion,
contributions from operational working capital of $4.2 billion, proceeds from
asset sales of $3.2 billion, and other investing activities of $1.5 billion.
The major uses of funds included a debt reduction of $19.7 billion; spending
for additions to property, plant and equipment of $12.1 billion; dividends to
shareholders of $14.9 billion; and additional investments and advances of $2.8
billion.

The Corporation has access to significant capacity of long-term and short-term
liquidity. Internally generated funds are expected to cover the majority of
financial requirements, supplemented by long-term and short-term debt. On
December 31, 2022, the Corporation had undrawn short-term committed lines of
credit of $0.3 billion and undrawn long-term lines of credit of $1.2 billion.

To support cash flows in future periods, the Corporation will need to
continually find or acquire and develop new fields, and continue to develop
and apply new technologies and recovery processes to existing fields, in order
to maintain or increase production. After a period of production at plateau
rates, it is the nature of oil and gas fields to eventually produce at
declining rates for the remainder of their economic life. Decline rates can
vary widely by individual field due to a number of factors, including, but not
limited to, the type of reservoir, fluid properties, recovery mechanisms, work
activity, and age of the field. In particular, the Corporation's key tight-oil
plays have higher initial decline rates which tend to moderate over time.
Furthermore, the Corporation's net interest in production for individual
fields can vary with price and the impact of fiscal and commercial terms.

The Corporation has long been successful at mitigating the effects of natural
field decline through disciplined investments in quality opportunities and
project execution. The Corporation anticipates several projects will come
online over the next few years providing additional production capacity.
However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of
individual project start-ups; operational outages; reservoir performance;
regulatory changes; the impact of fiscal and commercial terms; asset sales;
weather events; price effects on production sharing contracts; changes in the
amount and timing of investments that may vary depending on the oil and gas
price environment; and international trade patterns and relations. The
Corporation's cash flows are also highly dependent on crude oil and natural
gas prices. Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors for a more complete
discussion of risks.

The Corporation's financial strength enables it to make large, long-term
capital expenditures. Capital and exploration expenditures in 2022 were $22.7
billion, reflecting the Corporation's continued active investment program. The
Corporation plans to invest in the range of $23 billion to $25 billion in
2023.

Actual spending could vary depending on the progress of individual projects
and property acquisitions. The Corporation has a large and diverse portfolio
of development projects and exploration opportunities, which helps mitigate
the overall political and technical risks of the Corporation's Upstream
segment and associated cash flow. Further, due to its financial strength and
diverse portfolio of opportunities, the risk associated with failure or delay
of any single project would not have a significant impact on the Corporation's
liquidity or ability to generate sufficient cash flows for operations and its
fixed commitments.

63

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

The Corporation, as part of its ongoing asset management program, continues to
evaluate its mix of assets for potential upgrade. Because of the ongoing
nature of this program, dispositions will continue to be made from time to
time which will result in either gains or losses. Additionally, the
Corporation continues to evaluate opportunities to enhance its business
portfolio through acquisitions of assets or companies, and enters into such
transactions from time to time. Key criteria for evaluating acquisitions
include strategic fit, potential for future growth and attractive current
valuations. Acquisitions may be made with cash, shares of the Corporation's
common stock, or both.

ExxonMobil closely monitors the potential impact of Interbank Offered Rate
(IBOR) reform, including LIBOR, under a number of scenarios and has taken
steps to mitigate the potential impact. Accordingly, ExxonMobil does not
believe this event represents a material risk to the Corporation's
consolidated results of operations or financial condition.

Cash Flow from Operating Activities

2022

Cash provided by operating activities totaled $76.8 billion in 2022, $28.7
billion higher than 2021. The major source of funds was net income including
noncontrolling interests of $57.6 billion, an increase of $34.0 billion. The
noncash provision for depreciation and depletion was $24.0 billion, up $3.4
billion from the prior year. The adjustment for the net gain on asset sales
was $1.0 billion, a decrease of $0.2 billion. The adjustment for dividends
received less than equity in current earnings of equity companies was a
reduction of $2.4 billion, compared to a reduction of $0.7 billion in 2021.
Changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and debt, decreased
cash in 2022 by $0.2 billion.

2021

Cash provided by operating activities totaled $48.1 billion in 2021, $33.5
billion higher than 2020. The major source of funds was net income including
noncontrolling interests of $23.6 billion, an increase of $46.8 billion. The
noncash provision for depreciation and depletion was $20.6 billion, down $25.4
billion from the prior year. The adjustment for the net gain on asset sales
was $1.2 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion. The adjustment for dividends
received less than equity in current earnings of equity companies was a
reduction of $0.7 billion, compared to a reduction of $1.0 billion in 2020.
Changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and debt, increased
cash in 2021 by $4.2 billion.

Cash Flow from Investing Activities

2022

Cash used in investing activities netted to $14.7 billion in 2022, $4.5
billion higher than 2021. Spending for property, plant and equipment of $18.4
billion increased $6.3 billion from 2021. Proceeds from asset sales and
returns of investments of $5.2 billion compared to $3.2 billion in 2021.
Additional investments and advances were $0.3 billion higher in 2022, while
proceeds from other investing activities including collection of advances were
$1.5 billion during the year.

2021

Cash used in investing activities netted to $10.2 billion in 2021, $8.2
billion lower than 2020. Spending for property, plant and equipment of $12.1
billion decreased $5.2 billion from 2020. Proceeds from asset sales and
returns of investments of $3.2 billion compared to $1.0 billion in 2020.
Additional investments and advances were $2.0 billion lower in 2021, while
proceeds from other investing activities including collection of advances
decreased by $1.2 billion.

  

64

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Cash Flow from Financing Activities

2022

Cash used in financing activities was $39.1 billion in 2022, $3.7 billion
higher than 2021. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $3.55 per
share from $3.49 per share and totaled $14.9 billion. During 2022, the
Corporation utilized cash to reduce debt by $7.2 billion.

ExxonMobil share of equity increased $26.5 billion to $195.0 billion. The
addition to equity for earnings was $55.7 billion. This was offset by
reductions for dividends to ExxonMobil shareholders of $14.9 billion. Foreign
exchange translation effects of $3.1 billion for the stronger U.S. dollar
reduced equity, and a $3.6 billion change in the funded status of the
postretirement benefits reserves increased equity.

During 2022, Exxon Mobil Corporation restarted its share repurchase program
for up to $50 billion in shares through 2024, including the purchase of 162
million shares at a cost of $15 billion in 2022.

2021

Cash flow from financing activities was $35.4 billion in 2021, $40.7 billion
higher than 2020. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $3.49 per
share from $3.48 per share and totaled $14.9 billion. During 2021, the
Corporation utilized cash to reduce debt by $19.7 billion.

ExxonMobil share of equity increased $11.4 billion to $168.6 billion. The
addition to equity for earnings was $23.0 billion. This was offset by
reductions for distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $14.9 billion, all
in the form of dividends. Foreign exchange translation effects of $0.9 billion
for the stronger U.S. dollar reduced equity, and a $3.8 billion change in the
funded status of the postretirement benefits reserves increased equity.

During 2021, Exxon Mobil Corporation suspended its share repurchase program
used to offset shares or units settled in shares issued in conjunction with
the company's benefit plans and programs.

  

Contractual Obligations

The Corporation has contractual obligations involving commitments to third
parties that impact its liquidity and capital resource needs. These
contractual obligations are primarily for leases, debt, asset retirement
obligations, pension and other postretirement benefits, take-or-pay and
unconditional purchase obligations, and firm capital commitments. See Notes 9,
11, 14 and 17 for information related to asset retirement obligations, leases,
long-term debt and pensions, respectively.

In addition, the Corporation also enters into commodity purchase obligations
(volumetric commitments but no fixed or minimum price) which are resold
shortly after purchase, either in an active, highly liquid market or under
long-term, unconditional sales contracts with similar pricing terms. Examples
include long-term, noncancelable LNG and natural gas purchase commitments and
commitments to purchase refinery products at market prices. These commitments
are not meaningful in assessing liquidity and cash flow, because the purchases
will be offset in the same periods by cash received from the related sales
transactions.

Take-or-pay obligations are noncancelable, long-term commitments for goods and
services. Unconditional purchase obligations are those long-term commitments
that are noncancelable or cancelable only under certain conditions, and that
third parties have used to secure financing for the facilities that will
provide the contracted goods or services. These obligations mainly pertain to
pipeline, manufacturing supply and terminal agreements. The total obligation
at year-end 2022 for take-or-pay and unconditional purchase obligations was
$38.2 billion. Cash payments expected in 2023 and 2024 are $3.8 billion and
$3.5 billion, respectively.

  

Guarantees

The Corporation and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently
liable at December 31, 2022 for guarantees relating to notes, loans and
performance under contracts (Note 16). Where guarantees for environmental
remediation and other similar matters do not include a stated cap, the amounts
reflect management's estimate of the maximum potential exposure. Where it is
not possible to make a reasonable estimation of the maximum potential amount
of future payments, future performance is expected to be either immaterial or
have only a remote chance of occurrence. Guarantees are not reasonably likely
to have a material effect on the Corporation's financial condition, changes in
financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity,
capital expenditures or capital resources.

65

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Financial Strength

On December 31, 2022, the Corporation had total unused short-term committed
lines of credit of $0.3 billion (Note 6) and total unused long-term committed
lines of credit of $1.2 billion (Note 14). The table below shows the
Corporation's consolidated debt to capital ratios.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(percent)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Debt to capital| 16.9| | 21.4| | 29.2  
Net debt to capital| 5.4| | 18.9| | 27.8  
  
Management views the Corporation's financial strength to be a competitive
advantage of strategic importance. The Corporation's financial position gives
it the opportunity to access the world's capital markets across a range of
market conditions, and enables the Corporation to take on large, long-term
capital commitments in the pursuit of maximizing shareholder value.

Stronger industry conditions in 2021 and 2022 enabled the Corporation to
strengthen the balance sheet and return debt to pre-pandemic levels. The
Corporation reduced debt by $19.9 billion in 2021 and an additional $6.5
billion in 2022, ending the year with $41.2 billion in total debt.

Litigation and Other Contingencies

As discussed in Note 16, a variety of claims have been made against ExxonMobil
and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits.
Based on a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, the
Corporation does not believe the ultimate outcome of any currently pending
lawsuit against ExxonMobil will have a material adverse effect upon the
Corporation's operations, financial condition, or financial statements taken
as a whole. There are no events or uncertainties beyond those already included
in reported financial information that would indicate a material change in
future operating results or financial condition. Refer to Note 16 for
additional information on legal proceedings and other contingencies.

66

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES

Capital and exploration expenditures (Capex) represent the combined total of
additions at cost to property, plant and equipment, and exploration expenses
on a before-tax basis from the Consolidated Statement of Income. ExxonMobil's
Capex includes its share of similar costs for equity companies. Capex excludes
assets acquired in nonmonetary exchanges, the value of ExxonMobil shares used
to acquire assets, and depreciation on the cost of exploration support
equipment and facilities recorded to property, plant and equipment when
acquired. While ExxonMobil's management is responsible for all investments and
elements of net income, particular focus is placed on managing the
controllable aspects of this group of expenditures.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021  
U.S.| | Non-U.S.| | Total| | U.S.| | Non-U.S.| | Total  
Upstream (including exploration expenses)| 6,968 | | | 10,034 | | | 17,002 | |
| 4,018 | | | 8,236 | | | 12,254 |  
Energy Products| 1,351 | | | 1,059 | | | 2,410 | | | 982 | | | 1,005 | | |
1,987 |  
Chemical Products| 1,123 | | | 1,842 | | | 2,965 | | | 1,200 | | | 825 | | |
2,025 |  
Specialty Products| 46 | | | 222 | | | 268 | | | 185 | | | 141 | | | 326 |  
Other| 59 | | | -- | | | 59 | | | 3 | | | -- | | | 3 |  
Total| 9,547 | | | 13,157 | | | 22,704 | | | 6,388 | | | 10,207 | | | 16,595 |  
  
Capex in 2022 was $22.7 billion, as the Corporation continued to pursue
opportunities to find and produce new supplies of oil and natural gas to meet
global demand for energy. The Corporation plans to invest in the range of $23
billion to $25 billion in 2023. Included in the 2023 capital spend range is
$11.6 billion of firm capital commitments. An additional $11.4 billion of firm
capital commitments have been made for years 2024 and beyond. Actual spending
could vary depending on the progress of individual projects and property
acquisitions.

Upstream spending of $17.0 billion in 2022 was up 39 percent from 2021,
reflecting higher spend in the U.S. Permian Basin and advantaged projects in
Guyana. Development projects typically take several years from the time of
recording proved undeveloped reserves to the start of production and can
exceed five years for large and complex projects. The percentage of proved
developed reserves was 63 percent of total proved reserves at year-end 2022,
and has been over 60 percent for the last ten years.

Capital investments in Energy Products totaled $2.4 billion in 2022, an
increase of $0.4 billion from 2021, reflecting higher global project spending,
including the refinery expansion in Beaumont, Texas. Chemical Products capital
expenditures of $3.0 billion increased $0.9 billion, representing increased
spend on key growth projects such as the China chemical complex. Specialty
Products capital expenditures of $0.3 billion decreased $0.1 billion.

TAXES

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Income taxes| 20,176 | | | 7,636 | | | (5,632)|  
Effective income tax rate| 33%| | 31%| | 17%  
Total other taxes and duties| 31,455 | | | 32,955 | | | 28,425 |  
Total| 51,631 | | | 40,591 | | | 22,793 |  
  
2022

Total taxes on the Corporation's income statement were $51.6 billion in 2022,
an increase of $11.0 billion from 2021. Income tax expense, both current and
deferred, was $20.2 billion compared to $7.6 billion in 2021. The effective
tax rate, which is calculated based on consolidated company income taxes and
ExxonMobil's share of equity company income taxes, was 33 percent compared to
31 percent in the prior year driven by impacts from additional European taxes
on the energy sector. Total other taxes and duties of $31.5 billion in 2022
decreased $1.5 billion.

2021

Total taxes on the Corporation's income statement were $40.6 billion in 2021,
an increase of $17.8 billion from 2020. Income tax expense, both current and
deferred, was $7.6 billion compared to a $5.6 billion benefit in 2020. The
effective tax rate, which is calculated based on consolidated company income
taxes and ExxonMobil's share of equity company income taxes, was 31 percent
compared to 17 percent in the prior year due primarily to a change in mix of
results in jurisdictions with varying tax rates. Total other taxes and duties
of $33.0 billion in 2021 increased $4.5 billion.

67

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Environmental Expenditures

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021  
Capital expenditures| 1,864 | | | 1,202 |  
Other expenditures| 3,835 | | | 3,361 |  
Total| 5,699 | | | 4,563 |  
  
Throughout ExxonMobil's businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to
prevent and minimize the impact of our operations on air, water and ground.
These include a significant investment in refining infrastructure and
technology to manufacture clean fuels, as well as projects to monitor and
reduce air, water, and waste emissions, and expenditures for asset retirement
obligations. Using definitions and guidelines established by the American
Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil's 2022 worldwide environmental expenditures
for all such preventative and remediation steps, including ExxonMobil's share
of equity company expenditures, were $5.7 billion, of which $3.8 billion were
included in expenses with the remainder in capital expenditures. As the
Corporation progresses its emission-reduction plans, worldwide environmental
expenditures are expected to increase to approximately $7.3 billion in 2023,
with capital expenditures expected to account for approximately 46 percent of
the total. Costs for 2024 are anticipated to increase to approximately $8.2
billion, with capital expenditures expected to account for approximately 51
percent of the total.

Environmental Liabilities

The Corporation accrues environmental liabilities when it is probable that
obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated.
This policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously
disposed. ExxonMobil has accrued liabilities for probable environmental
remediation obligations at various sites, including multiparty sites where the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has identified ExxonMobil as one of the
potentially responsible parties. The involvement of other financially
responsible companies at these multiparty sites could mitigate ExxonMobil's
actual joint and several liability exposure. At present, no individual site is
expected to have losses material to ExxonMobil's operations or financial
condition. Consolidated company provisions made in 2022 for environmental
liabilities were $185 million ($146 million in 2021), and the balance sheet
reflects liabilities of $730 million as of December 31, 2022, and $807 million
as of December 31, 2021.

MARKET RISKS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Worldwide Average Realizations (1)

| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Crude oil and NGL ($ per barrel)| 87.25 | | | 61.89 | | | 35.41 |  
Natural gas ($ per thousand cubic feet)| 7.48 | | | 4.33 | | | 2.01 |  
| | | | |  
  
(1) Consolidated subsidiaries.  
  
Crude oil, natural gas, petroleum product, and chemical prices have fluctuated
in response to changing market forces. The impacts of these price fluctuations
on earnings have varied across the Corporation's operating segments. For the
year 2023, a $1 per barrel change in the weighted-average realized price of
oil would have approximately a $500 million annual after-tax effect on
Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings, excluding the impact of
derivatives. Similarly, a $0.10 per thousand cubic feet change in the
worldwide average gas realization would have approximately a $140 million
annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings,
excluding the impact of derivatives. For any given period, the extent of
actual benefit or detriment will be dependent on the price movements of
individual types of crude oil, results of trading activities, taxes and other
government take impacts, price adjustment lags in long-term gas contracts, and
crude and gas production volumes. Accordingly, changes in benchmark prices for
crude oil and natural gas only provide broad indicators of changes in the
earnings experienced in any particular period.

In the very competitive petroleum and petrochemical environment, earnings are
primarily determined by margin capture rather than absolute price levels of
products sold. Refining margins are a function of the difference between what
a refiner pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market
prices for the range of products produced. These prices in turn depend on
global and regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, refinery
operations, import/export balances and weather.

The global energy markets can give rise to extended periods in which market
conditions are adverse to one or more of the Corporation's businesses. Such
conditions, along with the capital-intensive nature of the industry and very
long lead times associated with many of our projects, underscore the
importance of maintaining a strong financial position. Management views the
Corporation's financial strength as a competitive advantage.

68

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

In general, segment results are not dependent on the ability to sell and/or
purchase products to/from other segments. Instead, where such sales take
place, they are the result of efficiencies and competitive advantages of
integrated refinery and chemical complexes. Additionally, intersegment sales
are at market-based prices. The products bought and sold between segments can
also be acquired in worldwide markets that have substantial liquidity,
capacity, and transportation capabilities. Refer to Note 18 for additional
information on intersegment revenue.

Although price levels of crude oil and natural gas may rise or fall
significantly over the short to medium term due to global economic conditions,
political events, decisions by OPEC and other major government resource owners
and other factors, industry economics over the long term will continue to be
driven by market supply and demand. The Corporation evaluates investments over
a range of prices, including estimated greenhouse gas emission costs even in
jurisdictions without a current greenhouse gas pricing policy.

The Corporation has an active asset management program in which nonstrategic
assets are considered for divestment. The asset management program includes a
disciplined, regular review to ensure that assets are contributing to the
Corporation's strategic objectives.

Risk Management

The Corporation's size, strong capital structure, geographic diversity, and
the complementary nature of its business segments reduce the Corporation's
enterprise-wide risk from changes in commodity prices, currency rates, and
interest rates. In addition, the Corporation uses commodity-based contracts,
including derivatives, to manage commodity price risk and to generate returns
from trading. The Corporation's commodity derivatives are not accounted for
under hedge accounting. At times, the Corporation also enters into currency
and interest rate derivatives, none of which are material to the Corporation's
financial position as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, or results of operations
for the years ended 2022, 2021, and 2020. Credit risk associated with the
Corporation's derivative position is mitigated by several factors, including
the use of derivative clearing exchanges and the quality of and financial
limits placed on derivative counterparties. No material market or credit risks
to the Corporation's financial position, results of operations or liquidity
exist as a result of the derivatives described in Note 13. The Corporation
maintains a system of controls that includes the authorization, reporting and
monitoring of derivative activity.

The Corporation is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on its
short-term debt and the portion of long-term debt that carries floating
interest rates. The impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates
affecting the Corporation's debt would not be material to earnings or cash
flow. The Corporation has access to significant capacity of long-term and
short-term liquidity. Internally generated funds are generally expected to
cover financial requirements, supplemented by long-term and short-term debt as
required. Commercial paper is used to balance short-term liquidity
requirements. Some joint-venture partners are dependent on the credit markets,
and their funding ability may impact the development pace of joint-venture
projects.

The Corporation conducts business in many foreign currencies and is subject to
exchange rate risk on cash flows related to sales, expenses, financing and
investment transactions. Fluctuations in exchange rates are often offsetting
and the impacts on ExxonMobil's geographically and functionally diverse
operations are varied. The Corporation makes limited use of currency exchange
contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency values, and exposures
related to the Corporation's use of these contracts are not material.

69

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The Corporation's accounting and financial reporting fairly reflect its
integrated business model involving exploration for, and production of, crude
oil and natural gas; manufacture, trade, transport and sale of crude oil,
natural gas, petroleum products, petrochemicals, and a wide variety of
specialty products; and pursuit of lower-emission business opportunities
including carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, and lower-emission fuels. The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and
judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues,
and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The
Corporation's accounting policies are summarized in Note 1.

Oil and Natural Gas Reserves

The estimation of proved oil and natural gas reserve volumes is an ongoing
process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market
assessments, and detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and
reservoir pressure declines, development and production costs, and other
factors. The estimation of proved reserves is controlled by the Corporation
through long-standing approval guidelines. Reserve changes are made within a
well-established, disciplined process driven by senior level geoscience and
engineering professionals, assisted by the Global Reserves and Resources Group
which has significant technical experience, culminating in reviews with and
approval by senior management. Notably, the Corporation does not use specific
quantitative reserve targets to determine compensation. Key features of the
reserve estimation process are covered in Disclosure of Reserves in Item 2.

Oil and natural gas reserves include both proved and unproved reserves.

•Proved oil and natural gas reserves are determined in accordance with
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requirements. Proved reserves are
those quantities of oil and natural gas which, by analysis of geoscience and
engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be
economically producible under existing economic and operating conditions and
government regulations. Proved reserves are determined using the average of
first-of-month oil and natural gas prices during the reporting year.

Proved reserves can be further subdivided into developed and undeveloped
reserves. Proved developed reserves include amounts which are expected to be
recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating
methods. Proved undeveloped reserves include amounts expected to be recovered
from new wells on undrilled proved acreage or from existing wells where a
relatively major expenditure is required for completion. Proved undeveloped
reserves are recognized only if a development plan has been adopted indicating
that the reserves are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless
specific circumstances support a longer period of time.

The Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced.
However, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of
factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance,
regulatory approvals, government policy, consumer preferences, and significant
changes in oil and natural gas price levels.

•Unproved reserves are quantities of oil and natural gas with less than
reasonable certainty of recoverability and include probable reserves. Probable
reserves are reserves that, together with proved reserves, are as likely as
not to be recovered.

Revisions in previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing
fields can occur due to the evaluation or re-evaluation of (1) already
available geologic, reservoir, or production data, (2) new geologic,
reservoir, or production data, or (3) changes in the average of first-of-month
oil and natural gas prices and/or costs that are used in the estimation of
reserves. Revisions can also result from significant changes in development
strategy or production equipment and facility capacity.

Unit-of-Production Depreciation

Oil and natural gas reserve volumes are used as the basis to calculate unit-
of-production depreciation rates for most upstream assets. Depreciation is
calculated by taking the ratio of asset cost to total proved reserves or
proved developed reserves applied to actual production. The volumes produced
and asset cost are known, while proved reserves are based on estimates that
are subject to some variability.

In the event that the unit-of-production method does not result in an
equitable allocation of cost over the economic life of an upstream asset, an
alternative method is used. The straight-line method is used in limited
situations where the expected life of the asset does not reasonably correlate
with that of the underlying reserves. For example, certain assets used in the
production of oil and natural gas have a shorter life than the reserves, and
as such, the Corporation uses straight-line depreciation to ensure the asset
is fully depreciated by the end of its useful life.

To the extent that proved reserves for a property are substantially de-booked
and that property continues to produce such that the resulting depreciation
charge does not result in an equitable allocation of cost over the expected
life, assets will be depreciated using a unit-of-production method based on
reserves determined at the most recent SEC price which results in a more
meaningful quantity of proved reserves, appropriately adjusted for production
and technical changes.

70

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Impairment

The Corporation tests assets or groups of assets for recoverability on an
ongoing basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The Corporation has a robust process
to monitor for indicators of potential impairment across its asset groups
throughout the year. This process is aligned with the requirements of ASC 360
and ASC 932, and relies, in part, on the Corporation's planning and budgeting
cycle.

Because the lifespans of the vast majority of the Corporation's major assets
are measured in decades, the future cash flows of these assets are
predominantly based on long-term oil and natural gas commodity prices and
industry margins, development costs, and production costs. Significant
reductions in the Corporation's view of oil or natural gas commodity prices or
margin ranges, especially the longer-term prices and margins, and changes in
the development plans, including decisions to defer, reduce, or eliminate
planned capital spending, can be an indicator of potential impairment. Other
events or changes in circumstances, including indicators outlined in ASC 360,
can be indicators of potential impairment as well.

In general, the Corporation does not view temporarily low prices or margins as
an indication of impairment. Management believes that prices over the long
term must be sufficient to generate investments in energy supply to meet
global demand. Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry
prices over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and
demand fundamentals. On the supply side, industry production from mature
fields is declining. This is being offset by investments to generate
production from new discoveries, field developments, and technology and
efficiency advancements. OPEC investment activities and production policies
also have an impact on world oil supplies. The demand side is largely a
function of general economic activities, alternative energy sources, and
levels of prosperity. During the lifespan of its major assets, the Corporation
expects that oil and gas prices and industry margins will experience
significant volatility. Consequently, these assets will experience periods of
higher earnings and periods of lower earnings, or even losses. In assessing
whether events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an
asset may not be recoverable, the Corporation considers recent periods of
operating losses in the context of its longer-term view of prices and margins.

Outlook for Energy and Cash Flow Assessment. The annual planning and budgeting
process, known as the Corporate Plan, is the mechanism by which resources
(capital, operating expenses, and people) are allocated across the
Corporation. The foundation for the assumptions supporting the Corporate Plan
is the Outlook for Energy (Outlook), which contains the Corporation's demand
and supply projections based on its assessment of current trends in
technology, government policies, consumer preferences, geopolitics, economic
development, and other factors. Reflective of the existing global policy
environment, the Outlook does not attempt to project the degree of necessary
future policy and technology advancement and deployment for the world, or the
Corporation, to meet net zero by 2050. As future policies and technology
advancements emerge, they will be incorporated into the Outlook, and the
Corporation's business plans will be updated accordingly.

If events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an
asset may not be recoverable, the Corporation estimates the future
undiscounted cash flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability
of carrying amounts. In performing this assessment, assets are grouped at the
lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely
independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets. Cash flows used in
recoverability assessments are based on the assumptions developed in the
Corporate Plan, which is reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors, and
are consistent with the criteria management uses to evaluate investment
opportunities. These evaluations make use of the Corporation's assumptions of
future capital allocations, crude oil and natural gas commodity prices
including price differentials, refining and chemical margins, volumes,
development and operating costs including greenhouse gas emission prices, and
foreign currency exchange rates. Notably, when assessing future cash flows,
the Corporation includes the estimated costs in support of reaching its 2030
greenhouse gas emission-reduction plans, including its goal of net-zero
greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) from unconventional operated assets
in the Permian Basin. Volumes are based on projected field and facility
production profiles, throughput, or sales. Management's estimate of upstream
production volumes used for projected cash flows makes use of proved reserve
quantities and may include risk-adjusted unproved reserve quantities.
ExxonMobil considers a range of scenarios - including remote scenarios - to
help inform perspective of the future and enhance strategic thinking over
time. While third-party scenarios, such as the International Energy Agency's
Net Zero Emissions by 2050, may be used for these purposes, they are not used
as a basis for developing future cash flows for impairment assessments. As
part of the Corporate Plan, the Company considers estimated greenhouse gas
emission costs, even for jurisdictions without a current greenhouse gas
pricing policy.

Fair Value of Impaired Assets. An asset group is impaired if its estimated
undiscounted cash flows are less than the asset group's carrying value.
Impairments are measured by the excess of the carrying value over fair value.
The assessment of fair value is based upon the views of a likely market
participant. The principal parameters used to establish fair value include
estimates of acreage values and flowing production metrics from comparable
market transactions, market-based estimates of historical cash flow multiples,
and discounted cash flows. Inputs and assumptions used in discounted cash flow
models include estimates of future production volumes, throughput and product
sales volumes, commodity prices which are consistent with the average of
third-party industry experts and government agencies, refining and chemical
margins, drilling and development costs, operating costs, and discount rates
which are reflective of the characteristics of the asset group.

  

71

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Other Impairment Estimates. Unproved properties are assessed periodically to
determine whether they have been impaired. Significant unproved properties are
assessed for impairment individually, and valuation allowances against the
capitalized costs are recorded based on the Corporation's future development
plans, the estimated economic chance of success, and the length of time that
the Corporation expects to hold the properties. Properties that are not
individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based on
development risk and average holding period.

Long-lived assets that are held for sale are evaluated for possible impairment
by comparing the carrying value of the asset with its fair value less the cost
to sell. If the net book value exceeds the fair value less cost to sell, the
assets are considered impaired and adjusted to the lower value. Judgment is
required to determine if assets are held for sale and to determine the fair
value less cost to sell.

Investments accounted for by the equity method are assessed for possible
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value of an investment may not be recoverable. Examples of key indicators
include a history of operating losses, negative earnings and cash flow
outlook, significant downward revisions to oil and gas reserves, and the
financial condition and prospects for the investee's business segment or
geographic region. If the decline in value of the investment is other than
temporary, the carrying value of the investment is written down to fair value.
In the absence of market prices for the investment, discounted cash flows are
used to assess fair value, which requires significant judgment.

Recent Impairments. In early 2022, in response to Russia's military action in
Ukraine, the Corporation announced that it planned to discontinue operations
on the Sakhalin-1 project ("Sakhalin") and develop steps to exit the venture.
The Corporation's first quarter results included after-tax charges of $3.0
billion representing the impairment of its Upstream operations related to
Sakhalin. (Refer to Note 2 for further information on Russia.) Other after-tax
impairment charges of $1.6 billion and $0.3 billion were recognized in
Upstream and Energy Products, respectively.

In 2021, largely as a result of changes to Upstream development plans, the
Corporation recognized after-tax impairment charges of approximately $1
billion. In 2020, as part of the Corporation's annual review and approval of
its business and strategic plan, a decision was made to no longer develop a
significant portion of the dry gas portfolio in the United States, Canada, and
Argentina. The impairment of these assets resulted in after-tax charges of
$18.4 billion in Upstream. Other after-tax impairment charges of $1.8 billion
across the year related mainly to impairments of property, plant, and
equipment, goodwill, and equity method investments.

Factors which could put further assets at risk of impairment in the future
include reductions in the Corporation's price or margin outlooks, changes in
the allocation of capital or development plans, reduced long-term demand for
the Corporation's products, and operating cost increases which exceed the pace
of efficiencies or the pace of oil and natural gas price or margin increases.
However, due to the inherent difficulty in predicting future commodity prices
or margins, and the relationship between industry prices and costs, it is not
practicable to reasonably estimate the existence or range of any potential
future impairment charges related to the Corporation's long-lived assets.

For further information regarding impairments in goodwill, equity method
investments, property, plant, and equipment, and suspended wells, refer to
Notes 3, 7, 9, and 10, respectively.

Asset Retirement Obligations

The Corporation is subject to retirement obligations for certain assets. The
fair values of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted
basis, which is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the
estimation of fair value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments
regarding such factors as the existence of a legal obligation for an asset
retirement obligation, technical assessments of the assets, estimated amounts
and timing of settlements, discount rates, and inflation rates. See Note 9 for
further information regarding asset retirement obligations.

Suspended Exploratory Well Costs

The Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when it has
found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify completion as a producing
well and the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing the reserves
and the economic and operating viability of the project. Exploratory well
costs not meeting these criteria are charged to expense. Assessing whether the
Corporation is making sufficient progress on a project requires careful
consideration of the facts and circumstances. The facts and circumstances that
support continued capitalization of suspended wells at year-end are disclosed
in Note 10.

  

72

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Pension Benefits

The Corporation and its affiliates sponsor 75 defined benefit (pension) plans
in 40 countries. The Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits footnote (Note
17) provides details on pension obligations, fund assets, and pension expense.

Some of these plans (primarily non-U.S.) provide pension benefits that are
paid directly by their sponsoring affiliates out of corporate cash flow rather
than a separate pension fund because applicable tax rules and regulatory
practices do not encourage advance funding. Book reserves are established for
these plans. The portion of the pension cost attributable to employee service
is expensed as services are rendered. The portion attributable to the increase
in pension obligations due to the passage of time is expensed over the term of
the obligations, which ends when all benefits are paid. The primary difference
in pension expense for unfunded versus funded plans is that pension expense
for funded plans also includes a credit for the expected long-term return on
fund assets.

For funded plans, including those in the U.S., pension obligations are
financed in advance through segregated assets or insurance arrangements. These
plans are managed in compliance with the requirements of governmental
authorities and meet or exceed required funding levels as measured by relevant
actuarial and government standards at the mandated measurement dates. In
determining liabilities and required contributions, these standards often
require approaches and assumptions that differ from those used for accounting
purposes.

The Corporation will continue to make contributions to these funded plans as
necessary. All defined-benefit pension obligations, regardless of the funding
status of the underlying plans, are fully supported by the financial strength
of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring affiliate.

Pension accounting requires explicit assumptions regarding, among others, the
long-term expected earnings rate on fund assets, the discount rate for the
benefit obligations, and the long-term rate for future salary increases.
Pension assumptions are reviewed annually by outside actuaries and senior
management. These assumptions are adjusted as appropriate to reflect changes
in market rates and outlook. The long-term expected earnings rate on U.S.
pension plan assets in 2022 was 4.6 percent. The 10-year and 20-year actual
returns on U.S. pension plan assets were 4 percent and 7 percent,
respectively. The Corporation establishes the long-term expected rate of
return by developing a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for each
pension fund asset class, taking into account factors such as the expected
real return for the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term
rate of return is then calculated as the weighted average of the target asset
allocation percentages and the long-term return assumption for each asset
class. A worldwide reduction of 0.5 percent in the long-term rate of return on
assets would increase annual pension expense by approximately $140 million
before tax.

Differences between actual returns on fund assets and the long-term expected
return are not recognized in pension expense in the year that the difference
occurs. Such differences are deferred, along with other actuarial gains and
losses, and are amortized into pension expense over the expected remaining
service life of employees.

Litigation and Tax Contingencies

A variety of claims have been made against the Corporation and certain of its
consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. The Corporation
accrues an undiscounted liability for those contingencies where the incurrence
of a loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. For
contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and
significant, the Corporation discloses the nature of the contingency and,
where feasible, an estimate of the possible loss. Management has regular
litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside counsel, to
assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these
contingencies. The status of significant claims is summarized in Note 16.

Management judgment is required related to contingent liabilities and the
outcome of litigation because both are difficult to predict. However, the
Corporation has been successful in defending litigation in the past. Payments
have not had a material adverse effect on our operations or financial
condition. In the Corporation's experience, large claims often do not result
in large awards. Large awards are often reversed or substantially reduced as a
result of appeal or settlement.

The Corporation is subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions around the
world. The benefits of uncertain tax positions that the Corporation has taken
or expects to take in its income tax returns are recognized in the financial
statements if management concludes that it is more likely than not that the
position will be sustained with the tax authorities. For a position that is
likely to be sustained, the benefit recognized in the financial statements is
measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being
realized. Significant management judgment is required in the accounting for
income tax contingencies and tax disputes because the outcomes are often
difficult to predict. The Corporation's unrecognized tax benefits and a
description of open tax years are summarized in Note 19.

  

73

* * *

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management, including the Corporation's Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting Officer, is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the Corporation's
financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation,
management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation's internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2022.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,
audited the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2022, as stated in their report included in the
Financial Section of this report.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
![xom-20221231_g14.jpg](xom-20221231_g14.jpg)

|

![xom-20221231_g15.jpg](xom-20221231_g15.jpg)

|

![xom-20221231_g16.jpg](xom-20221231_g16.jpg)  
  
Darren W. Woods

Chief Executive Officer

|

Kathryn A. Mikells

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

|

Len M. Fox

Vice President and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)  
  
  

74

* * *

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Exxon Mobil Corporation

Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial
Reporting

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Exxon Mobil
Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Corporation") as of December 31, 2022
and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive
income, of changes in equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively
referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited
the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Corporation as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.

Basis for Opinions

The Corporation's management is responsible for these consolidated financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express
opinions on the Corporation's consolidated financial statements and on the
Corporation's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent
with respect to the Corporation in accordance with the U.S. federal securities
laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing
procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated
financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures
that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test
basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our
audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

75

* * *

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the
current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that
(i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated
financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective,
or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not
alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken
as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below,
providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts
or disclosures to which it relates.

The Impact of Proved Oil and Natural Gas Reserves on Upstream Property, Plant
and Equipment, Net

As described in Notes 1, 9 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements,
the Corporation's consolidated upstream property, plant and equipment (PP&E),
net balance was $144.1 billion as of December 31, 2022, and the related
depreciation and depletion expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 was
$19.8 billion. Management uses the successful efforts method to account for
its exploration and production activities. Costs incurred to purchase, lease,
or otherwise acquire a property (whether unproved or proved) are capitalized
when incurred. As disclosed by management, proved oil and natural gas reserve
volumes are used as the basis to calculate unit-of-production depreciation
rates for most upstream assets. The estimation of proved oil and natural gas
reserve volumes is an ongoing process based on technical evaluations,
commercial and market assessments, and detailed analysis of well information
such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines, development and production
costs, among other factors. As further disclosed by management, reserve
changes are made within a well-established, disciplined process driven by
senior level geoscience and engineering professionals, assisted by the Global
Reserves and Resources Group (together "management's specialists").

The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures
relating to the impact of proved oil and natural gas reserves on upstream
PP&E, net is a critical audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by
management, including the use of management's specialists, when developing the
estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserve volumes, as the reserve
volumes are based on engineering assumptions and methods, which in turn led to
(ii) a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity, and effort in performing
procedures and evaluating audit evidence related to the data, methods and
assumptions used by management and its specialists in developing the estimates
of proved oil and natural gas reserve volumes and the assumptions applied to
the data related to future development costs, as applicable.

Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit
evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated
financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of
controls relating to management's estimates of proved oil and natural gas
reserve volumes. The work of management's specialists was used in performing
the procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of the proved oil and natural
gas reserve volumes. As a basis for using this work, the specialists'
qualifications were understood and the Corporation's relationship with the
specialists was assessed. The procedures performed also included evaluation of
the methods and assumptions used by the specialists, tests of the data used by
the specialists, and an evaluation of the specialists' findings. These
procedures also included, among others, testing the completeness and accuracy
of the data related to future development costs. Additionally, these
procedures included evaluating whether the assumptions applied to the data
related to future development costs were reasonable considering the past
performance of the Corporation.

  

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Dallas, Texas

February 22, 2023

  

We have served as the Corporation's auditor since 1934.

  

  

76

* * *

  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
(millions of dollars)

| Note  
Reference  
Number| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Revenues and other income|  | |  | |  | |  
Sales and other operating revenue| 18| | 398,675 | | | 276,692 | | | 178,574 |  
Income from equity affiliates| 7| | 11,463 | | | 6,657 | | | 1,732 |  
Other income|  | | 3,542 | | | 2,291 | | | 1,196 |  
Total revenues and other income|  | | 413,680 | | | 285,640 | | | 181,502 |  
Costs and other deductions|  | | | | | |  
Crude oil and product purchases|  | | 228,959 | | | 155,164 | | | 94,007 |  
Production and manufacturing expenses|  | | 42,609 | | | 36,035 | | | 30,431 |  
Selling, general and administrative expenses| | | 10,095 | | | 9,574 | | |
10,168 |  
Depreciation and depletion (includes impairments)| 2, 9| | 24,040 | | | 20,607
| | | 46,009 |  
Exploration expenses, including dry holes|  | | 1,025 | | | 1,054 | | | 1,285
|  
Non-service pension and postretirement benefit expense| 17| | 482 | | | 786 |
| | 1,205 |  
Interest expense|  | | 798 | | | 947 | | | 1,158 |  
Other taxes and duties| 19| | 27,919 | | | 30,239 | | | 26,122 |  
Total costs and other deductions|  | | 335,927 | | | 254,406 | | | 210,385 |  
Income (loss) before income taxes|  | | 77,753 | | | 31,234 | | | (28,883)|  
Income tax expense (benefit)| 19| | 20,176 | | | 7,636 | | | (5,632)|  
Net income (loss) including noncontrolling interests|  | | 57,577 | | | 23,598
| | | (23,251)|  
Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests|  | | 1,837 | | |
558 | | | (811)|  
Net income (loss) attributable to ExxonMobil|  | | 55,740 | | | 23,040 | | |
(22,440)|  
| | | | | | |  
  
Earnings (loss) per common share (dollars)

| 12| | 13.26 | | | 5.39 | | | (5.25)|  
| | | | | | |  
  
Earnings (loss) per common share - assuming dilution (dollars)

| 12| | 13.26 | | | 5.39 | | | (5.25)|  
| | | | | | |  
The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an
integral part of these statements.  
  
  

77

* * *

  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Net income (loss) including noncontrolling interests| 57,577 | | | 23,598 | |
| (23,251)|  
| | | | |  
Other comprehensive income (loss) (net of income taxes)| | | | |  
Foreign exchange translation adjustment| (3,482)| | | (872)| | | 1,916 |  
Adjustment for foreign exchange translation (gain)/loss included in net
income| -- | | | (2)| | | 14 |  
Postretirement benefits reserves adjustment (excluding amortization)| 3,395 |
| | 3,118 | | | 30 |  
Amortization and settlement of postretirement benefits reserves adjustment
included in net periodic benefit costs| 403 | | | 925 | | | 896 |  
Total other comprehensive income (loss)| 316 | | | 3,169 | | | 2,856 |  
Comprehensive income (loss) including noncontrolling interests| 57,893 | | |
26,767 | | | (20,395)|  
Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests| 1,659 |
| | 786 | | | (743)|  
Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to ExxonMobil| 56,234 | | | 25,981 |
| | (19,652)|  
| | | | |  
The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an
integral part of these statements.  
  
  

78

* * *

  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| Note  
Reference  
Number| | December 31, 2022| | December 31, 2021  
| | | | |  
ASSETS|  | |  | |  
Current assets|  | |  | |  
Cash and cash equivalents|  | | 29,640 | | | 6,802 |  
Cash and cash equivalents - restricted| | | 25 | | | -- |  
Notes and accounts receivable - net| 6| | 41,749 | | | 32,383 |  
Inventories|  | | | |  
Crude oil, products and merchandise| 3| | 20,434 | | | 14,519 |  
Materials and supplies|  | | 4,001 | | | 4,261 |  
Other current assets|  | | 1,782 | | | 1,189 |  
Total current assets|  | | 97,631 | | | 59,154 |  
Investments, advances and long-term receivables| 8| | 49,793 | | | 45,195 |  
Property, plant and equipment, at cost, less accumulated depreciation and
depletion| 9| | 204,692 | | | 216,552 |  
Other assets, including intangibles - net|  | | 16,951 | | | 18,022 |  
Total Assets|  | | 369,067 | | | 338,923 |  
| | | | |  
LIABILITIES|  | | | |  
Current liabilities|  | | | |  
Notes and loans payable| 6| | 634 | | | 4,276 |  
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities| 6| | 63,197 | | | 50,766 |  
Income taxes payable|  | | 5,214 | | | 1,601 |  
Total current liabilities|  | | 69,045 | | | 56,643 |  
Long-term debt| 14| | 40,559 | | | 43,428 |  
Postretirement benefits reserves| 17| | 10,045 | | | 18,430 |  
Deferred income tax liabilities| 19| | 22,874 | | | 20,165 |  
Long-term obligations to equity companies|  | | 2,338 | | | 2,857 |  
Other long-term obligations|  | | 21,733 | | | 21,717 |  
Total Liabilities|  | | 166,594 | | | 163,240 |  
| | | | |  
Commitments and contingencies| 16| | | |  
| | | | |  
EQUITY|  | | | |  
  
Common stock without par value

(9,000 million shares authorized, 8,019 million shares issued)

|  | | 15,752 | | | 15,746 |  
Earnings reinvested|  | | 432,860 | | | 392,059 |  
Accumulated other comprehensive income|  | | (13,270)| | | (13,764)|  
  
Common stock held in treasury

(3,937 million shares in 2022 and 3,780 million shares in 2021)

|  | | (240,293)| | | (225,464)|  
ExxonMobil share of equity|  | | 195,049 | | | 168,577 |  
Noncontrolling interests|  | | 7,424 | | | 7,106 |  
Total Equity|  | | 202,473 | | | 175,683 |  
Total Liabilities and Equity|  | | 369,067 | | | 338,923 |  
| | | | |  
The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an
integral part of these statements.  
  
79

* * *

  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| Note Reference Number| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| |  | | | | | |  
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES|  | |  | |  | |  
Net income (loss) including noncontrolling interests|  | | 57,577 | | | 23,598
| | | (23,251)|  
Adjustments for noncash transactions|  | | | | | |  
Depreciation and depletion (includes impairments)| 2, 9| | 24,040 | | | 20,607
| | | 46,009 |  
Deferred income tax charges/(credits)| 19| | 3,758 | | | 303 | | | (8,856)|  
Postretirement benefits expense in excess of/(less than) net payments|  | |
(2,981)| | | 754 | | | 498 |  
Other long-term obligation provisions in excess of/(less than) payments|  | |
(1,932)| | | 50 | | | (1,269)|  
Dividends received greater than/(less than) equity in current earnings of
equity companies|  | | (2,446)| | | (668)| | | 979 |  
Changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and debt| | | | | | |  
  
Notes and accounts receivable reduction/(increase)

| | | (11,019)| | | (12,098)| | | 5,384 |  
  
Inventories reduction/(increase)

|  | | (6,947)| | | (489)| | | (315)|  
  
Other current assets reduction/(increase)

|  | | (688)| | | (71)| | | 420 |  
  
Accounts and other payables increase/(reduction)

|  | | 18,460 | | | 16,820 | | | (7,142)|  
Net (gain)/loss on asset sales| 5| | (1,034)| | | (1,207)| | | 4 |  
All other items - net|  | | 9 | | | 530 | | | 2,207 |  
Net cash provided by operating activities|  | | 76,797 | | | 48,129 | | |
14,668 |  
| | | | | | | |  
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES|  | | | | | |  
Additions to property, plant and equipment|  | | (18,407)| | | (12,076)| | |
(17,282)|  
Proceeds from asset sales and returns of investments|  | | 5,247 | | | 3,176 |
| | 999 |  
Additional investments and advances|  | | (3,090)| | | (2,817)| | | (4,857)|  
Other investing activities including collection of advances|  | | 1,508 | | |
1,482 | | | 2,681 |  
Net cash used in investing activities|  | | (14,742)| | | (10,235)| | |
(18,459)|  
| | | | | | | |  
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES|  | | | | | |  
Additions to long-term debt|  | | 637 | | | 46 | | | 23,186 |  
Reductions in long-term debt|  | | (5)| | | (8)| | | (8)|  
  
Additions to short-term debt (1)

|  | | 198 | | | 12,687 | | | 35,396 |  
  
Reductions in short-term debt (1)

|  | | (8,075)| | | (29,396)| | | (28,742)|  
Additions/(reductions) in commercial paper, and debt with three months or less
maturity| | | 25 | | | (2,983)| | | (9,691)|  
Contingent consideration payments| | | (58)| | | (30)| | | (21)|  
Cash dividends to ExxonMobil shareholders|  | | (14,939)| | | (14,924)| | |
(14,865)|  
Cash dividends to noncontrolling interests|  | | (267)| | | (224)| | | (188)|  
Changes in noncontrolling interests|  | | (1,475)| | | (436)| | | 623 |  
Common stock acquired|  | | (15,155)| | | (155)| | | (405)|  
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities|  | | (39,114)| | |
(35,423)| | | 5,285 |  
| | | | | | | |  
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash|  | | (78)| | | (33)| | | (219)|  
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents|  | | 22,863 | | | 2,438 | |
| 1,275 |  
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year|  | | 6,802 | | | 4,364 | | |
3,089 |  
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year|  | | 29,665 | | | 6,802 | | | 4,364
|  
| | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Includes commercial paper with a maturity greater than three months.  
  
| | | | | | | |  
The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an
integral part of these statements.  
  
  

  

80

* * *

  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| ExxonMobil Share of Equity|  |  
| | | | | | |  
  
(millions of dollars)

| Common  
Stock| Earnings  
Reinvested| Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income| Common  
Stock Held in  
Treasury| ExxonMobil  
Share of  
Equity| Non-controlling Interests| Total  
Equity  
| | | | | | |  
Balance as of December 31, 2019| 15,637 | | 421,341 | | (19,493)| | (225,835)|
| 191,650 | | 7,288 | | 198,938 |  
Amortization of stock-based awards| 696 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 696 | | -- |
| 696 |  
Other| (645)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | (645)| | 692 | | 47 |  
Net income (loss) for the year| -- | | (22,440)| | -- | | -- | | (22,440)| |
(811)| | (23,251)|  
Dividends - common shares| -- | | (14,865)| | -- | | -- | | (14,865)| | (188)|
| (15,053)|  
Cumulative effect of accounting change| -- | | (93)| | -- | | -- | | (93)| |
(1)| | (94)|  
Other comprehensive income| -- | | -- | | 2,788 | | -- | | 2,788 | | 68 | |
2,856 |  
Acquisitions, at cost| -- | | -- | | -- | | (405)| | (405)| | (68)| | (473)|  
| | | | | | |  
Dispositions| -- | | -- | | -- | | 464 | | 464 | | -- | | 464 |  
Balance as of December 31, 2020| 15,688 | | 383,943 | | (16,705)| | (225,776)|
| 157,150 | | 6,980 | | 164,130 |  
Amortization of stock-based awards| 534 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 534 | | -- |
| 534 |  
Other| (476)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | (476)| | 115 | | (361)|  
Net income (loss) for the year| -- | | 23,040 | | -- | | -- | | 23,040 | | 558
| | 23,598 |  
Dividends - common shares| -- | | (14,924)| | -- | | -- | | (14,924)| | (224)|
| (15,148)|  
| | | | | | |  
Other comprehensive income| -- | | -- | | 2,941 | | -- | | 2,941 | | 228 | |
3,169 |  
Acquisitions, at cost| -- | | -- | | -- | | (155)| | (155)| | (551)| | (706)|  
Dispositions| -- | | -- | | -- | | 467 | | 467 | | -- | | 467 |  
Balance as of December 31, 2021| 15,746 | | 392,059 | | (13,764)| | (225,464)|
| 168,577 | | 7,106 | | 175,683 |  
Amortization of stock-based awards| 481 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 481 | | -- |
| 481 |  
Other| (475)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | (475)| | 405 | | (70)|  
Net income (loss) for the year| -- | | 55,740 | | -- | | -- | | 55,740 | |
1,837 | | 57,577 |  
Dividends - common shares| -- | | (14,939)| | -- | | -- | | (14,939)| | (267)|
| (15,206)|  
| | | | | | |  
Other comprehensive income| -- | | -- | | 494 | | -- | | 494 | | (178)| | 316
|  
Acquisitions, at cost| -- | | -- | | -- | | (15,295)| | (15,295)| | (1,479)| |
(16,774)|  
Dispositions| -- | | -- | | -- | | 466 | | 466 | | -- | | 466 |  
Balance as of December 31, 2022| 15,752 | | 432,860 | | (13,270)| | (240,293)|
| 195,049 | | 7,424 | | 202,473 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Common Stock Share Activity

(millions of shares)

| Issued| Held in  
Treasury| Outstanding  
| | |  
Balance as of December 31, 2019| 8,019 | | (3,785)| | 4,234 |  
Acquisitions| -- | | (8)| | (8)|  
| | |  
Dispositions| -- | | 7 | | 7 |  
Balance as of December 31, 2020| 8,019 | | (3,786)| | 4,233 |  
Acquisitions| -- | | (2)| | (2)|  
Dispositions| -- | | 8 | | 8 |  
Balance as of December 31, 2021| 8,019 | | (3,780)| | 4,239 |  
Acquisitions| -- | | (165)| | (165)|  
Dispositions| -- | | 8 | | 8 |  
Balance as of December 31, 2022| 8,019 | | (3,937)| | 4,082 |  
| | |  
The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an
integral part of these statements.  
  
  

  

  

  

81

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The accompanying consolidated financial statements and the supporting and
supplemental material are the responsibility of the management of Exxon Mobil
Corporation.

The Corporation's principal business involves exploration for, and production
of, crude oil and natural gas; manufacture, trade, transport and sale of crude
oil, natural gas, petroleum products, petrochemicals and a wide variety of
specialty products; and pursuit of lower-emission business opportunities
including carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and lower-emission fuels.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and
expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual
results could differ from these estimates. Prior years' data have been
reclassified in certain cases to conform to the 2022 presentation basis.

  

1\. Summary of Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation and Accounting for Investments

The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of subsidiaries the
Corporation controls and any variable interest entities where it is deemed the
primary beneficiary. They also include the Corporation's share of the
undivided interest in certain upstream assets, liabilities, revenues, and
expenses. Amounts representing the Corporation's interest in entities that it
does not control, but over which it exercises significant influence, are
included in "Investments, advances and long-term receivables". Under the
equity method of accounting, the Corporation recognizes its share of the net
income of these companies in "Income from equity affiliates".

Majority ownership is normally the indicator of control that is the basis on
which subsidiaries are consolidated. However, certain factors may indicate
that a majority-owned investment is not controlled and, therefore, should be
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. These factors occur where
the minority shareholders are granted, by law or by contract, substantive
participating rights. These include the right to approve operating policies,
expense budgets, financing and investment plans, and management compensation
and succession plans.

Investments accounted for by the equity method are assessed for possible
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value of an investment may not be recoverable. Examples of key indicators
include a history of operating losses, negative earnings and cash flow
outlook, significant downward revisions to oil and gas reserves, and the
financial condition and prospects for the investee's business segment or
geographic region. If the decline in value of the investment is other than
temporary, the carrying value of the investment is written down to fair value.
In the absence of market prices for the investment, discounted cash flows are
used to assess fair value. The Corporation's share of the cumulative foreign
exchange translation adjustment for equity method investments is reported in
"Accumulated other comprehensive income".

Investments in equity securities, other than consolidated subsidiaries and
equity method investments, are measured at fair value with changes in fair
value recognized in net income. The Corporation uses the modified approach for
equity securities that do not have a readily determinable fair value. This
modified approach measures investments at cost minus impairment, if any, plus
or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly
transactions in a similar investment of the same issuer.

Revenue Recognition

The Corporation generally sells crude oil, natural gas, and petroleum and
chemical products under short-term agreements at prevailing market prices. In
some cases (e.g., natural gas), products may be sold under long-term
agreements, with periodic price adjustments to reflect market conditions.
Revenue is recognized at the amount the Corporation expects to receive when
the customer has taken control, which is typically when title transfers and
the customer has assumed the risks and rewards of ownership. The prices of
certain sales are based on price indices that are sometimes not available
until the next period. In such cases, estimated realizations are accrued when
the sale is recognized, and are finalized when the price is available. Such
adjustments to revenue from performance obligations satisfied in previous
periods are not significant. Payment for revenue transactions is typically due
within 30 days. Future volume delivery obligations that are unsatisfied at the
end of the period are expected to be fulfilled through ordinary production or
purchases. These performance obligations are based on market prices at the
time of the transaction and are fully constrained due to market price
volatility.

Purchases and sales of inventory with the same counterparty that are entered
into in contemplation of one another are combined and recorded as exchanges
measured at the book value of the item sold.

"Sales and other operating revenue" and "Notes and accounts receivable"
include revenue and receivables both within the scope of ASC 606 "Revenue from
Contracts with Customers" and those outside the scope of ASC 606. Long-term
receivables are primarily from receivables outside the scope of ASC 606.
Contract assets are mainly from marketing assistance programs and are not
significant. Contract liabilities are mainly customer prepayments and accruals
of expected volume discounts and are not significant.

82

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Income and Other Taxes

The Corporation excludes from the Consolidated Statement of Income certain
sales and value-added taxes imposed on and concurrent with revenue-producing
transactions with customers and collected on behalf of governmental
authorities. Similar taxes, for which the Corporation is not considered to be
an agent for the government, are reported on a gross basis (included in both
"Sales and other operating revenue" and "Other taxes and duties").

The Corporation accounts for U.S. tax on global intangible low-taxed income as
an income tax expense in the period in which it is incurred.

Derivative Instruments

The Corporation may use derivative instruments for trading purposes and to
offset exposures associated with commodity prices, foreign currency exchange
rates, and interest rates that arise from existing assets, liabilities, firm
commitments, and forecasted transactions. All derivative instruments, except
those designated as normal purchase and normal sale, are recorded at fair
value. Derivative assets and liabilities with the same counterparty are netted
if the right of offset exists and certain other criteria are met. Collateral
payables or receivables are netted against derivative assets and derivative
liabilities, respectively.

Recognition and classification of the gain or loss that results from adjusting
a derivative to fair value depends on the purpose for the derivative. All
gains and losses from derivative instruments for which the Corporation does
not apply hedge accounting are immediately recognized in earnings. The
Corporation may designate derivatives as fair value or cash flow hedges. For
fair value hedges, the gain or loss from derivative instruments and the
offsetting gain or loss from the hedged item are recognized in earnings. For
cash flow hedges, the gain or loss from the derivative instrument is initially
reported as a component of other comprehensive income and subsequently
reclassified into earnings in the period that the forecasted transaction
affects earnings.

Fair Value

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.
Hierarchy levels 1, 2, and 3 are terms for the priority of inputs to valuation
techniques used to measure fair value. Hierarchy level 1 inputs are quoted
prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Hierarchy level
2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are
directly or indirectly observable for the asset or liability. Hierarchy level
3 inputs are inputs that are not observable in the market.

Inventories

Crude oil, products, and merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of
current market value or cost (generally determined under the last-in, first-
out method - LIFO). Inventory costs include expenditures and other charges
(including depreciation) directly and indirectly incurred in bringing the
inventory to its existing condition and location. Selling expenses and general
and administrative expenses are reported as period costs and excluded from
inventory cost. Inventories of materials and supplies are valued at cost or
less.

Property, Plant, and Equipment

Cost Basis. The Corporation uses the "successful efforts" method to account
for its exploration and production activities. Under this method, costs are
accumulated on a field-by-field basis. Costs incurred to purchase, lease, or
otherwise acquire a property (whether unproved or proved) are capitalized when
incurred. Exploratory well costs are carried as an asset when the well has
found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a
producing well and where the Corporation is making sufficient progress
assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the
project. Exploratory well costs not meeting these criteria are charged to
expense. Other exploratory expenditures, including geophysical costs and
annual lease rentals, are expensed as incurred. Development costs, including
costs of productive wells and development dry holes, are capitalized.

Interest costs incurred to finance expenditures during the construction phase
of multiyear projects are capitalized as part of the historical cost of
acquiring the constructed assets. The project construction phase commences
with the development of the detailed engineering design and ends when the
constructed assets are ready for their intended use. Capitalized interest
costs are included in property, plant, and equipment and are depreciated over
the service life of the related assets.

83

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization. Depreciation, depletion, and
amortization are primarily determined under either the unit-of-production
method or the straight-line method, which is based on estimated asset service
life, taking obsolescence into consideration.

Acquisition costs of proved properties are amortized using a unit-of-
production method, computed on the basis of total proved oil and natural gas
reserve volumes. Capitalized exploratory drilling and development costs
associated with productive depletable extractive properties are amortized
using the unit-of-production rates based on the amount of proved developed
reserves of oil and gas that are estimated to be recoverable from existing
facilities using current operating methods. Under the unit-of-production
method, oil and natural gas volumes are considered produced once they have
been measured through meters at custody transfer or sales transaction points
at the outlet valve on the lease or field storage tank.

In the event that the unit-of-production method does not result in an
equitable allocation of cost over the economic life of an upstream asset, an
alternative method is used. The straight-line method is used in limited
situations where the expected life of the asset does not reasonably correlate
with that of the underlying reserves. For example, certain assets used in the
production of oil and natural gas have a shorter life than the reserves, and
as such, the Corporation uses straight-line depreciation to ensure the asset
is fully depreciated by the end of its useful life.

To the extent that proved reserves for a property are substantially de-booked
and that property continues to produce such that the resulting depreciation
charge does not result in an equitable allocation of cost over the expected
life, assets will be depreciated using a unit-of-production method based on
reserves determined at the most recent SEC price which results in a more
meaningful quantity of proved reserves, appropriately adjusted for production
and technical changes.

Investments in refinery, chemical process, and lubes basestock manufacturing
equipment are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over a 25-year
life. Service station buildings and fixed improvements are generally
depreciated over a 20-year life. Maintenance and repairs, including planned
major maintenance, are expensed as incurred. Major renewals and improvements
are capitalized, and the assets replaced are retired.

Impairment Assessment. The Corporation tests assets or groups of assets for
recoverability on an ongoing basis whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Among the events or
changes in circumstances which could indicate that the carrying value of an
asset or asset group may not be recoverable are the following:

•a significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset;

•a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is
being used or in its physical condition, including a significant decrease in
current and projected reserve volumes;

•a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that
could affect the value, including an adverse action or assessment by a
regulator;

•an accumulation of project costs significantly in excess of the amount
originally expected;

•a current-period operating loss combined with a history and forecast of
operating or cash flow losses; and

•a current expectation that, more likely than not, a long-lived asset will be
sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously
estimated useful life.

The Corporation has a robust process to monitor for indicators of potential
impairment across its asset groups throughout the year. This process is
aligned with the requirements of ASC 360 and ASC 932, and relies, in part, on
the Corporation's planning and budgeting cycle. Asset valuation analysis,
profitability reviews, and other periodic control processes assist the
Corporation in assessing whether events or changes in circumstances indicate
the carrying amounts of any of its assets may not be recoverable.

Because the lifespans of the vast majority of the Corporation's major assets
are measured in decades, the future cash flows of these assets are
predominantly based on long-term oil and natural gas commodity prices and
industry margins, development costs, and production costs. Significant
reductions in the Corporation's view of oil or natural gas commodity prices or
margin ranges, especially the longer-term prices and margins, and changes in
the development plans, including decisions to defer, reduce, or eliminate
planned capital spending, can be an indicator of potential impairment. Other
events or changes in circumstances can be indicators of potential impairment
as well.

84

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In general, the Corporation does not view temporarily low prices or margins as
an indication of impairment. Management believes that prices over the long
term must be sufficient to generate investments in energy supply to meet
global demand. Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry
prices over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and
demand fundamentals. On the supply side, industry production from mature
fields is declining. This is being offset by investments to generate
production from new discoveries, field developments, and technology and
efficiency advancements. OPEC investment activities and production policies
also have an impact on world oil supplies. The demand side is largely a
function of general economic activities, alternative energy sources, and
levels of prosperity. During the lifespan of its major assets, the Corporation
expects that oil and gas prices and industry margins will experience
significant volatility. Consequently, these assets will experience periods of
higher earnings and periods of lower earnings, or even losses. In assessing
whether events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an
asset may not be recoverable, the Corporation considers recent periods of
operating losses in the context of its longer-term view of prices and margins.

In the Upstream, the standardized measure of discounted cash flows included in
the Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production
Activities is required to use prices based on the average of first-of-month
prices in the year. These prices represent discrete points in time and could
be higher or lower than the Corporation's price assumptions which are used for
impairment assessments. The Corporation believes the standardized measure does
not provide a reliable estimate of the expected future cash flows to be
obtained from the development and production of its oil and gas properties or
of the value of its oil and gas reserves, and therefore, does not consider it
relevant in determining whether events or changes in circumstances indicate
the need for an impairment assessment.

Outlook for Energy and Cash Flow Assessment. The annual planning and budgeting
process, known as the Corporate Plan, is the mechanism by which resources
(capital, operating expenses, and people) are allocated across the
Corporation. The foundation for the assumptions supporting the Corporate Plan
is the Outlook for Energy (Outlook), which contains the Corporation's demand
and supply projections based on its assessment of current trends in
technology, government policies, consumer preferences, geopolitics, economic
development, and other factors. Reflective of the existing global policy
environment, the Outlook does not attempt to project the degree of necessary
future policy and technology advancement and deployment for the world, or the
Corporation, to meet net zero by 2050. As future policies and technology
advancements emerge, they will be incorporated into the Outlook, and the
Corporation's business plans will be updated accordingly.

If events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an
asset may not be recoverable, the Corporation estimates the future
undiscounted cash flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability
of carrying amounts. In performing this assessment, assets are grouped at the
lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely
independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets. Cash flows used in
recoverability assessments are based on the assumptions developed in the
Corporate Plan, which is reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors, and
are consistent with the criteria management uses to evaluate investment
opportunities. These evaluations make use of the Corporation's assumptions of
future capital allocations, crude oil and natural gas commodity prices
including price differentials, refining and chemical margins, volumes,
development and operating costs including greenhouse gas emission prices, and
foreign currency exchange rates. Notably, when assessing future cash flows,
the Corporation includes the estimated costs in support of reaching its 2030
greenhouse gas emission-reduction plans, including its goal of net-zero
greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) from unconventional operated assets
in the Permian Basin. Volumes are based on projected field and facility
production profiles, throughput, or sales. Management's estimate of upstream
production volumes used for projected cash flows makes use of proved reserve
quantities and may include risk-adjusted unproved reserve quantities. Cash
flow estimates for impairment testing exclude the effects of derivative
instruments. As part of the Corporate Plan, the Company considers estimated
greenhouse gas emission costs, even for jurisdictions without a current
greenhouse gas pricing policy.

Fair Value of Impaired Assets. An asset group is impaired if its estimated
undiscounted cash flows are less than the asset group's carrying value.
Impairments are measured by the excess of the carrying value over fair value.
The assessment of fair value is based upon the views of a likely market
participant. The principal parameters used to establish fair value include
estimates of acreage values and flowing production metrics from comparable
market transactions, market-based estimates of historical cash flow multiples,
and discounted cash flows. Inputs and assumptions used in discounted cash flow
models include estimates of future production volumes, throughput and product
sales volumes, commodity prices which are consistent with the average of
third-party industry experts and government agencies, refining and chemical
margins, drilling and development costs, operating costs, and discount rates
which are reflective of the characteristics of the asset group.

Other Impairments Related to Property, Plant and Equipment. Unproved
properties are assessed periodically to determine whether they have been
impaired. Significant unproved properties are assessed for impairment
individually, and valuation allowances against the capitalized costs are
recorded based on the Corporation's future development plans, the estimated
economic chance of success, and the length of time that the Corporation
expects to hold the properties. Properties that are not individually
significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based on development risk
and average holding period.

Long-lived assets that are held for sale are evaluated for possible impairment
by comparing the carrying value of the asset with its fair value less the cost
to sell. If the net book value exceeds the fair value less cost to sell, the
assets are considered impaired and adjusted to the lower value. Gains on sales
of proved and unproved properties are only recognized when there is neither
uncertainty about the recovery of costs applicable to any interest retained
nor any substantial obligation for future performance by the Corporation.

85

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Environmental Liabilities

Liabilities for environmental costs are recorded when it is probable that
obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated.
These liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries from third parties,
and projected cash expenditures are not discounted.

Foreign Currency Translation

The Corporation selects the functional reporting currency for its
international subsidiaries based on the currency of the primary economic
environment in which each subsidiary operates. Operations in the Product
Solutions businesses use the local currency. However, the U.S. dollar is used
in countries with a history of high inflation (primarily in Latin America) and
Singapore, which predominantly sells into the U.S. dollar export market.
Upstream operations which are relatively self-contained and integrated within
a particular country, such as in Canada and Europe, use the local currency.
Some Upstream operations, primarily in Asia and Africa, use the U.S. dollar
because they predominantly sell crude and natural gas production into U.S.
dollar-denominated markets.

For all operations, gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency
transactions into the functional currency are included in income.

86

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2\. Russia

In response to Russia's military action in Ukraine, the Corporation announced
in early 2022 that it planned to discontinue operations on the Sakhalin-1
project ("Sakhalin") and develop steps to exit the venture. In light of this,
an impairment assessment was conducted, and management determined that the
carrying value of the asset group was not recoverable. As a result, the
Corporation's first-quarter earnings included after-tax charges of $3.4
billion largely representing the full impairment of its operations related to
Sakhalin. On a before-tax basis, the charges amounted to $4.6 billion,
substantially all of which is reflected in the line captioned "Depreciation
and depletion (including impairments)" on the Consolidated Statement of
Income. Effective October 14, the Russian government unilaterally terminated
the Corporation's interests in Sakhalin, transferring operations to a Russian
operator. The Corporation's fourth-quarter results include an after-tax
benefit of $1.1 billion largely reflecting the impact of the expropriation on
the company's various obligations related to Sakhalin. The Corporation's exit
from the project results in approximately 150 million oil-equivalent barrels
no longer qualifying as proved reserves at year-end 2022.

  

  

87

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

3\. Miscellaneous Financial Information

Research and development expenses totaled $824 million in 2022, $843 million
in 2021, and $1,016 million in 2020.

Net income included before-tax aggregate foreign exchange transaction losses
of $218 million, $18 million, and $24 million in 2022, 2021, and 2020,
respectively.

LIFO Inventory. In 2022, 2021, and 2020, net income included gains of $367
million, $54 million, and $41 million, respectively, attributable to the
combined effects of LIFO inventory accumulations and drawdowns. The aggregate
replacement cost of inventories was estimated to exceed their LIFO carrying
values by $14.9 billion and $14.0 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively.

Crude oil, products. and merchandise as of year-end 2022 and 2021 consist of
the following:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| Dec 31, 2022| | Dec 31, 2021  
Crude oil| 6,909 | | | 4,162 |  
Petroleum products| 6,291 | | | 5,081 |  
  
Chemical products (1)

| 3,806 | | | 3,354 |  
Gas/other| 3,428 | | | 1,922 |  
Total| 20,434 | | | 14,519 |  
| | |  
  
(1) Chemical products includes basic chemicals (olefins and aromatics),
polymers (such as polyolefins, adhesions, specialty elastomers, & butyl),
intermediates (e.g. hydrocarbon fluids, plasticizers) and synthetics.  
  
Goodwill Impairments. Mainly as a result of declines in prices for crude oil,
natural gas and petroleum products and a significant decline in its market
capitalization at the end of the first quarter of 2020, the Corporation
recognized before-tax goodwill impairment charges of $611 million. Fair value
of the goodwill reporting units primarily reflected market-based estimates of
historical EBITDA multiples at the end of the first quarter. Charges related
to goodwill impairments in 2020 are included in "Depreciation and depletion"
on the Consolidated Statement of Income.

Restructuring. During 2020, ExxonMobil conducted an extensive global review of
staffing levels and subsequently commenced targeted workforce reductions
within a number of countries to improve efficiency and reduce costs. The
programs were completed by the end of 2021 and included both voluntary and
involuntary employee separations as well as reductions in contractors.

In 2020 and 2021, the Corporation recorded before-tax charges of $450 million
and $58 million respectively, consisting primarily of employee separation
costs, associated with announced workforce reduction programs. These costs are
captured in "Selling, general and administrative expenses" on the Consolidated
Statement of Income and reported within Corporate and Financing. No charges
related to the disclosed workforce reduction programs were recorded in 2022,
and no further charges are expected.

The reserves recorded in "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet were $403 million at December 31, 2020, and were
not material at year-end 2021 and 2022. The cash outflows associated with this
liability balance occurred primarily in 2021, and the remainder will occur
over the next few years, mainly in the form of monthly payments.

Government Assistance. ASC 832 "Government Assistance" requires disclosure of
certain types of government assistance not otherwise covered by authoritative
accounting guidance. During 2022, certain governments outside the United
States provided payments which, individually and in aggregate, were immaterial
to the Corporation's financial results. Among these are programs where
governments endeavor to stabilize or cap fuel and energy costs for local
consumers. To compensate producers who sell at the government-mandated prices,
these governments provide reimbursements to the producers. In 2022, these
reimbursements totaled approximately $1.5 billion before tax, and were
reflected as reductions to the line captioned "Crude oil and product
purchases" on the Consolidated Statement of Income. At December 31, 2022,
"Notes and accounts receivable - net" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
included $0.5 billion related to pending government reimbursements. The terms
and conditions of these programs, including their duration, vary by country.
In the event that any of these programs are discontinued, the Corporation does
not expect a significant impact to its financial results. Additionally, in
connection with cap and trade programs in certain countries outside the United
States, companies receive allowances from governments covering a specified
level of emissions from facilities they operate. The terms of these programs
vary by country. The Corporation records these allowances at a nominal amount
in "Other assets, including intangibles - net" on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet.

88

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

4\. Other Comprehensive Income Information

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
ExxonMobil Share of Accumulated Other

Comprehensive Income

(millions of dollars)

| Cumulative Foreign Exchange Translation Adjustment| | Postretirement
Benefits Reserves Adjustment| | Total  
| | | | |  
Balance as of December 31, 2019| (12,446)| | | (7,047)| | | (19,493)|  
Current period change excluding amounts reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive income| 1,818 | | | 95 | | | 1,913 |  
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income| 14 | | | 861
| | | 875 |  
Total change in accumulated other comprehensive income| 1,832 | | | 956 | | |
2,788 |  
Balance as of December 31, 2020| (10,614)| | | (6,091)| | | (16,705)|  
| | | | |  
  
Current period change excluding amounts reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive income (1)

| (883)| | | 2,938 | | | 2,055 |  
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income| (2)| | | 888
| | | 886 |  
Total change in accumulated other comprehensive income| (885)| | | 3,826 | | |
2,941 |  
Balance as of December 31, 2021| (11,499)| | | (2,265)| | | (13,764)|  
| | | | |  
  
Current period change excluding amounts reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive income (1)

| (3,092)| | | 3,205 | | | 113 |  
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income| -- | | | 381
| | | 381 |  
Total change in accumulated other comprehensive income| (3,092)| | | 3,586 | |
| 494 |  
Balance as of December 31, 2022| (14,591)| | | 1,321 | | | (13,270)|  
| | | | |  
  
(1) Cumulative Foreign Exchange Translation Adjustment includes net investment
hedge gain/(loss) net of taxes of $230 million and $329 million in 2022 and
2021, respectively.  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other

Comprehensive Income - Before-tax Income/(Expense)

(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
  
Foreign exchange translation gain/(loss) included in net income

(Statement of Income line: Other income)

| -- | | | 2 | | | (14)|  
Amortization and settlement of postretirement benefits reserves adjustment
included in net periodic benefit costs (Statement of Income line: Non-service
pension and postretirement benefit expense)| (519)| | | (1,229)| | | (1,158)|  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Income Tax (Expense)/Credit For

Components of Other Comprehensive Income

(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
Foreign exchange translation adjustment| 54 | | | (114)| | | 118 |  
Postretirement benefits reserves adjustment (excluding amortization)| (1,120)|
| | (983)| | | 109 |  
Amortization and settlement of postretirement benefits reserves adjustment
included in net periodic benefit costs| (116)| | | (304)| | | (262)|  
Total| (1,182)| | | (1,401)| | | (35)|  
  
89

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

5\. Cash Flow Information

The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows provides information about changes in
cash and cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities of three
months or less when acquired are classified as cash equivalents.

For 2022, the "Net (gain)/loss on asset sales" on the Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows includes before-tax amounts from the sale of certain unproved
assets in Romania and unconventional assets in Canada and the United States,
as well as other smaller divestments. For 2021, the "Net (gain)/loss on asset
sales" line includes before-tax amounts from the sale of non-operated upstream
assets in the United Kingdom Central and Northern North Sea and the sale of
ExxonMobil's global Santoprene business.

For 2020, the "Depreciation and depletion" and "Deferred income tax
charges/(credits)" on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows include impacts
from asset impairments, primarily in Upstream.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
Income taxes paid| 15,364 | | | 5,341 | | | 2,428 |  
| | | | |  
Cash interest paid| | | | |  
Included in cash flows from operating activities| 666 | | | 819 | | | 786 |  
Capitalized, included in cash flows from investing activities| 838 | | | 655 |
| | 665 |  
Total cash interest paid| 1,504 | | | 1,474 | | | 1,451 |  
  
  

6\. Additional Working Capital Information

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| | Dec 31, 2022| | Dec 31, 2021  
| | | |  
Notes and accounts receivable| |  | |  
  
Trade, less reserves of $168 million and $159 million

| | 32,844 | | | 26,883 |  
  
Other, less reserves of $402 million and $381 million

| | 8,905 | | | 5,500 |  
Total| | 41,749 | | | 32,383 |  
Notes and loans payable| | | |  
Bank loans| | 379 | | | 276 |  
Commercial paper| | 74 | | | 1,608 |  
Long-term debt due within one year| | 181 | | | 2,392 |  
Total| | 634 | | | 4,276 |  
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities| | | |  
Trade payables| | 33,169 | | | 26,623 |  
Payables to equity companies| | 14,585 | | | 8,885 |  
Accrued taxes other than income taxes| | 3,969 | | | 3,896 |  
Other| | 11,474 | | | 11,362 |  
Total| | 63,197 | | | 50,766 |  
  
  

Trade notes and accounts receivables include both receivables within the scope
of ASC 606 and outside the scope of ASC 606. Receivables outside the scope of
ASC 606 primarily relate to physically settled commodity contracts accounted
for as derivatives. Credit quality and type of customer are generally similar
between receivables within the scope of ASC 606 and those outside it.

The Corporation has short-term committed lines of credit of $0.3 billion which
were unused as of December 31, 2022. These lines are available for general
corporate purposes.

The weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings outstanding was
1.5 percent and 0.2 percent at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

90

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

7\. Equity Company Information

The summarized financial information below includes amounts related to certain
less-than-majority-owned companies and majority-owned subsidiaries where
minority shareholders possess the right to participate in significant
management decisions (see Note 1). These companies are primarily engaged in
oil and gas exploration and production, natural gas marketing, transportation
of crude oil, and petrochemical manufacturing in North America; natural gas
exploration, production and distribution in Europe; liquefied natural gas
(LNG) operations in Africa; and exploration, production, LNG operations, and
the manufacture and sale of petroleum and petrochemical products in Asia and
the Middle East. Also included are several refining and marketing ventures.

The share of total equity company revenues from sales to ExxonMobil
consolidated companies was 11 percent, 10 percent and 11 percent in the years
2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

The Corporation's ownership in these ventures is in the form of shares in
corporate joint ventures as well as interests in partnerships. Differences
between the company's carrying value of an equity investment and its
underlying equity in the net assets of the affiliate are assigned, to the
extent practicable, to specific assets and liabilities based on the company's
analysis of the factors giving rise to the difference. The amortization of
this difference, as appropriate, is included in "Income from equity
affiliates" on the Consolidated Statement of Income.

Impairments related to upstream equity investments of $0.6 billion, $0.2
billion and $0.6 billion in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, are included
in "Income from equity affiliates" or "Other income" on the Consolidated
Statement of Income.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Equity Company

Financial Summary

(millions of dollars)

| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| Total| ExxonMobil  
Share| | Total| ExxonMobil Share| | Total| ExxonMobil  
Share  
| | | | | | | | |  
Total revenues| | 183,812 | | 57,528 | | | 116,972 | | 34,995 | | | 69,954 | |
21,282 |  
Income before income taxes| | 61,550 | | 19,279 | | | 35,142 | | 9,278 | | |
12,743 | | 2,830 |  
Income taxes| | 23,149 | | 7,603 | | | 11,010 | | 2,763 | | | 4,333 | | 870 |  
Income from equity affiliates| | 38,401 | | 11,676 | | | 24,132 | | 6,515 | |
| 8,410 | | 1,960 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Current assets| | 77,457 | | 24,994 | | | 45,267 | | 15,542 | | | 33,419 | |
11,969 |  
Long-term assets| | 153,186 | | 42,921 | | | 150,699 | | 41,614 | | | 150,358
| | 41,457 |  
Total assets| | 230,643 | | 67,915 | | | 195,966 | | 57,156 | | | 183,777 | |
53,426 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Current liabilities| | 53,640 | | 15,555 | | | 28,862 | | 8,297 | | | 18,827 |
| 5,245 |  
Long-term liabilities| | 62,009 | | 18,929 | | | 63,138 | | 19,084 | | |
66,053 | | 19,927 |  
Net assets| | 114,994 | | 33,431 | | | 103,966 | | 29,775 | | | 98,897 | |
28,254 |  
  
  

91

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A list of significant equity companies as of December 31, 2022, together with
the Corporation's percentage ownership interest, is detailed below:

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Percentage Ownership Interest  
|  
Upstream|  
Aera Energy LLC| 48  
Barzan Gas Company Limited| 7  
BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH & Co. KG| 50  
Caspian Pipeline Consortium| 8  
Coral FLNG S.A.| 25  
Cross Timbers Energy LLC| 50  
GasTerra B.V.| 25  
Golden Pass LNG Terminal LLC| 30  
Golden Pass Pipeline LLC| 30  
Marine Well Containment Company LLC| 10  
Mozambique Rovuma Venture S.p.A.| 36  
Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.| 50  
Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas Global Company LDC| 33  
Permian Highway Pipeline LLC| 20  
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (2)| 24  
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (7)| 25  
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited| 25  
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II)| 31  
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3)| 30  
South Hook LNG Terminal Company Limited| 24  
Tengizchevroil LLP| 25  
Terminale GNL Adriatico S.r.l.| 71  
|  
Energy Products, Chemical Products, and/or Specialty Products|  
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company| 50  
Alberta Products Pipe Line Ltd.| 45  
Fujian Refining & Petrochemical Co. Ltd.| 25  
Gulf Coast Growth Ventures LLC| 50  
Infineum USA L.P.| 50  
Permian Express Partners LLC| 12  
Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd.| 50  
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Co.| 50  
  
  

92

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

8\. Investments, Advances and Long-Term Receivables

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| Dec 31, 2022| Dec 31, 2021  
| |  
Equity method company investments and advances|  |  
Investments| 34,522 | | 31,225 |  
  
Advances, net of allowances of $28 million and $34 million

| 8,049 | | 8,326 |  
Total equity method company investments and advances| 42,571 | | 39,551 |  
Equity securities carried at fair value and other investments at adjusted cost
basis| 278 | | 138 |  
  
Long-term receivables and miscellaneous, net of reserves of $1,623 million and
$5,974 million

| 6,944 | | 5,506 |  
Total| 49,793 | | 45,195 |  
  
  

9\. Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Property, Plant and Equipment

(millions of dollars)

| December 31, 2022| December 31, 2021  
Cost| Net| Cost| Net  
| | | |  
Upstream| 350,748 | | 144,146 | | 375,813 | | 156,951 |  
Energy Products| 58,393 | | 26,765 | | 58,504 | | 27,354 |  
Chemical Products| 36,322 | | 19,064 | | 33,514 | | 17,409 |  
Specialty Products| 8,895 | | 4,303 | | 9,217 | | 4,447 |  
Other| 18,335 | | 10,414 | | 18,014 | | 10,391 |  
Total| 472,693 | | 204,692 | | 495,062 | | 216,552 |  
  
In 2022, the Corporation identified situations where events or changes in
circumstances indicated that the carrying value of certain long-lived assets
may not be recoverable and conducted impairment assessments. Before-tax
impairment charges of $4.5 billion were recognized during the first quarter as
a result of the Corporation's plans to discontinue operations on the
Sakhalin-1 project and develop steps to exit the venture in response to
Russia's military action in Ukraine (Refer to Note 2 for additional
information.) Other before-tax impairment charges recognized during 2022
included $1.5 billion in Upstream and $0.4 billion in Energy Products.

In 2021, the Corporation recognized before-tax impairment charges of $1.2
billion largely as a result of changes to Upstream development plans. In 2020,
as part of the Corporation's annual review and approval of its business and
strategic plan, a decision was made to no longer develop a significant portion
of the dry gas portfolio in the United States, Canada and Argentina. The
impairment of these assets resulted in before-tax charges of $24.4 billion in
Upstream. Other before-tax impairment charges during 2020 included $0.9
billion in Upstream and $0.6 billion in Energy Products.

Impairment charges are primarily recognized in the lines "Depreciation and
depletion" and "Exploration expenses, including dry holes" on the Consolidated
Statement of Income. Accumulated depreciation and depletion totaled $268,001
million at the end of 2022 and $278,510 million at the end of 2021.

  

93

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Asset Retirement Obligations

The Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair
values of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis,
which is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the estimation of
fair value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments regarding such
factors as the existence of a legal obligation for an asset retirement
obligation, technical assessments of the assets, estimated amounts and timing
of settlements, discount rates, and inflation rates. Asset retirement
obligations incurred in the current period were Level 3 fair value
measurements. The costs associated with these liabilities are capitalized as
part of the related assets and depreciated as the reserves are produced. Over
time, the liabilities are accreted for the change in their present value.

Asset retirement obligations for facilities in the Product Solutions business
generally become firm at the time the facilities are permanently shut down and
dismantled. These obligations may include the costs of asset disposal and
additional soil remediation. However, these sites generally have indeterminate
lives based on plans for continued operations and as such, the fair value of
the conditional legal obligations cannot be measured, since it is impossible
to estimate the future settlement dates of such obligations.

The following table summarizes the activity in the liability for asset
retirement obligations:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | | |  
Balance at January 1| | 10,630 | | | 11,247 | | | 11,280 |  
Accretion expense and other provisions| | 744 | | | 548 | | | 584 |  
Reduction due to property sales| | (328)| | | (1,002)| | | (77)|  
Payments made| | (518)| | | (444)| | | (669)|  
Liabilities incurred| | 119 | | | 42 | | | 26 |  
Foreign currency translation| | (330)| | | (147)| | | 239 |  
Revisions| | 174 | | | 386 | | | (136)|  
Balance at December 31| | 10,491 | | | 10,630 | | | 11,247 |  
  
The long-term Asset Retirement Obligations were $9,650 million and $9,985
million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and are included in
"Other long-term obligations" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Estimated
cash payments in 2023 and 2024 are $841 million and $806 million,
respectively.

  

94

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

10\. Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Well Costs

The Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when the
well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as
a producing well and the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing
the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. The term
"project" as used in this report can refer to a variety of different
activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government
payment transparency reports.

The following two tables provide details of the changes in the balance of
suspended exploratory well costs, including an aging summary of those costs.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Change in capitalized suspended exploratory well costs

(millions of dollars)

| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | | |  
Balance beginning at January 1| | 4,120 | | | 4,382 | | | 4,613 |  
Additions pending the determination of proved reserves| | 378 | | | 420 | | |
208 |  
Charged to expense| | (259)| | | (325)| | | (318)|  
Reclassifications to wells, facilities and equipment based on the
determination of proved reserves| | (142)| | | (328)| | | (174)|  
Divestments/Other| | (585)| | | (29)| | | 53 |  
Ending balance at December 31| | 3,512 | | | 4,120 | | | 4,382 |  
Ending balance attributed to equity companies included above| | 306 | | | 306
| | | 306 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Period-end capitalized suspended exploratory well costs

(millions of dollars)

| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | | |  
Capitalized for a period of one year or less| | 378 | | | 420 | | | 208 |  
Capitalized for a period of between one and five years| | 969 | | | 1,642 | |
| 1,828 |  
Capitalized for a period of between five and ten years| | 1,410 | | | 1,657 |
| | 1,932 |  
Capitalized for a period of greater than ten years| | 755 | | | 401 | | | 414
|  
Capitalized for a period greater than one year - subtotal| | 3,134 | | | 3,700
| | | 4,174 |  
Total| | 3,512 | | | 4,120 | | | 4,382 |  
  
Exploration activity often involves drilling multiple wells, over a number of
years, to fully evaluate a project. The table below provides a breakdown of
the number of projects with only exploratory well costs capitalized for a
period of one year or less and those that have had exploratory well costs
capitalized for a period greater than one year.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Number of projects that only have exploratory well costs capitalized for a
period of one year or less| | 10 | | | 4 | | | 3 |  
Number of projects that have exploratory well costs capitalized for a period
greater than one year| | 26 | | | 30 | | | 34 |  
Total| | 36 | | | 34 | | | 37 |  
  
Of the 26 projects that have exploratory well costs capitalized for a period
greater than one year as of December 31, 2022, 11 projects have drilling in
the preceding year or exploratory activity planned in the next two years,
while the remaining 15 projects are those with completed exploratory activity
progressing toward development.

95

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The table below provides additional detail for those 15 projects, which total
$2,324 million.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Country/Project| December 31, 2022| Years Wells Drilled / Acquired| Comment  
(millions of dollars)  
| | | | |  
Angola  
  
Block 32 Central NE Hub

| 66| 2007| -| 2021| Evaluating development plan for tieback to existing
infrastructure.  
| | | | |  
Argentina  
  
La Invernada

| 72| 2014| Evaluating development plan to tie into planned infrastructure.  
| | | | |  
Australia  
  
Gorgon Area Ullage

| 305| 1994| -| 2015| Evaluating development plans to tie into existing LNG
facilities.  
| | | | |  
Canada  
  
Hibernia North

| 24| 2019| Awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  
| | | | |  
Guyana  
  
Uaru

| 117| 2017| -| 2021| Continuing discussions with the government regarding
development plan.  
| | | | |  
Kazakhstan  
  
Kairan

| 53| 2004| -| 2007| Evaluating commercialization and field development
alternatives, while continuing discussions with the government regarding the
development plan.  
| | | | |  
Mozambique  
  
Rovuma LNG Future Non-Straddling Train

| 120| 2017| Evaluating/progressing development plan to tie into planned LNG
facilities.  
  
Rovuma LNG Phase 1

| 150| 2017| Progressing development plan to tie into planned LNG facilities.  
  
Rovuma LNG Unitized Trains

| 35| 2017| Evaluating/progressing development plan to tie into planned LNG
facilities.  
| | | | |  
Nigeria  
  
Bonga North

| 34| 2004| -| 2009| Evaluating/progressing development plan for tieback to
existing/planned infrastructure.  
| | | | |  
Papua New Guinea  
  
Muruk

| 165| 2017| -| 2019| Evaluating/progressing development plans.  
  
Papua LNG

| 246| 2017| Evaluating/progressing development plans.  
  
P'nyang

| 116| 2012| -| 2018| Evaluating/progressing development plans.  
| | | | |  
Tanzania  
  
Block 2

| 525| 2012| -| 2015| Evaluating development alternatives, while continuing
discussions with the government regarding development plan.  
| | | | |  
Vietnam  
  
Blue Whale

| 296| 2011| -| 2015| Evaluating/progressing development plans.  
| | | | |  
  
Total 2022 (15 projects)

| 2,324|  
  
  

96

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

11\. Leases

The Corporation and its consolidated affiliates generally purchase the
property, plant and equipment used in operations, but there are situations
where assets are leased, primarily for drilling equipment, tankers, office
buildings, railcars, and other moveable equipment. Right of use assets and
lease liabilities are established on the balance sheet for leases with an
expected term greater than one year by discounting the amounts fixed in the
lease agreement for the duration of the lease which is reasonably certain,
considering the probability of exercising any early termination and extension
options. The portion of the fixed payment related to service costs for
drilling equipment, tankers and finance leases is excluded from the
calculation of right of use assets and lease liabilities. Generally, assets
are leased only for a portion of their useful lives, and are accounted for as
operating leases. In limited situations assets are leased for nearly all of
their useful lives, and are accounted for as finance leases.

Variable payments under these lease agreements are not significant. Residual
value guarantees, restrictions, or covenants related to leases, and
transactions with related parties are also not significant. In general, leases
are capitalized using the incremental borrowing rate of the leasing affiliate.
The Corporation's activities as a lessor are not significant.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Lease Cost

(millions of dollars)

| | Operating Leases| | Finance Leases  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Operating lease cost| | 1,776 | | | 1,542 | | | 1,553 | | | | | | |  
Short-term and other (net of sublease rental income)| | 1,389 | | | 1,351 | |
| 1,613 | | | | | | |  
Amortization of right of use assets| | | | | | | | 243 | | | 133 | | | 143 |  
Interest on lease liabilities| | | | | | | | 210 | | | 158 | | | 169 |  
  
Total (1)

| | 3,165 | | | 2,893 | | | 3,166 | | | 453 | | | 291 | | | 312 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Includes $908 million, $681 million and $827 million for drilling rigs and
related equipment operating leases in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Balance Sheet

(millions of dollars)

| | Operating Leases| | Finance Leases  
| December 31, 2022| | December 31, 2021| | December 31, 2022| | December 31,
2021  
| | | | | | | |  
Right of use assets| |  | |  | |  | |  
Included in Other assets, including intangibles - net| | 6,451 | | | 6,082 | |
| | |  
Included in Property, plant and equipment - net| | | | | | 2,090 | | | 2,412 |  
Total right of use assets| | 6,451 | | | 6,082 | | | 2,090 | | | 2,412 |  
| | | | | | | |  
Lease liability due within one year| | | | | | | |  
Included in Accounts payable and accrued liabilities| | 1,527 | | | 1,367 | |
| 5 | | | 4 |  
Included in Notes and loans payable| | | | | | 69 | | | 111 |  
Long-term lease liability| | | | | | | |  
Included in Other long-term obligations| | 4,067 | | | 3,823 | | | | |  
Included in Long-term debt| | | | | | 1,389 | | | 1,761 |  
Included in Long-term obligations to equity companies| | | | | | 126 | | | 131
|  
  
Total lease liability (2)

| | 5,594 | | | 5,190 | | | 1,589 | | | 2,007 |  
| | | | | | | |  
Weighted-average remaining lease term (years)| | 9| | 10| | 22| | 20  
Weighted-average discount rate (percent)| | 2.4 | %| | 2.3 | %| | 8.0 | %| |
7.7 | %  
| | | | | | | |  
  
(2) Includes $1,646 million and $935 million for drilling rigs and related
equipment operating leases in 2022 and 2021, respectively.  
  
  

97

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Maturity Analysis of Lease Liabilities

(millions of dollars)

| Operating Leases| | Finance Leases  
December 31, 2022  
| | |  
2023| 1,623 | | | 195 |  
2024| 1,231 | | | 193 |  
2025| 914 | | | 187 |  
2026| 401 | | | 184 |  
2027| 334 | | | 176 |  
2028 and beyond| 1,861 | | | 1,960 |  
Total lease payments| 6,364 | | | 2,895 |  
Discount to present value| (770)| | | (1,306)|  
Total lease liability| 5,594 | | | 1,589 |  
  
In addition to the lease liabilities in the table immediately above, at
December 31, 2022, undiscounted commitments for leases not yet commenced
totaled $4,246 million for operating leases and $3,054 million for finance
leases. Estimated cash payments for operating and finance leases not yet
commenced are $268 million and $260 million for 2023 and 2024 respectively.
The finance leases relate to LNG transportation vessels, a wastewater
treatment facility, a CO2 transportation and service agreement, and a long-
term hydrogen purchase agreement. The underlying assets for these finance
leases were primarily designed by, and are being constructed by, the lessors.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Other Information

(millions of dollars)

| | Operating Leases| | Finance Leases  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities| | | |
| | | | | | | |  
Cash flows from operating activities| | 1,119 | | | 1,135 | | | 1,159 | | | 20
| | | 20 | | | 31 |  
Cash flows from investing activities| | 500 | | | 291 | | | 283 | | | | | | |  
Cash flows from financing activities| | | | | | | | 149 | | | 110 | | | 94 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Noncash right of use assets recorded for lease liabilities| | | | | | | | | |
| |  
In exchange for lease liabilities during the period| | 1,997 | | | 1,405 | | |
735 | | | 73 | | | 200 | | | 108 |  
  
  

  

  

98

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

12\. Earnings Per Share

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Earnings per common share| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Net income (loss) attributable to ExxonMobil (millions of dollars)

| 55,740 | | | 23,040 | | | (22,440)|  
| | | | |  
  
Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding (millions of shares)

| 4,205 | | | 4,275 | | | 4,271 |  
| | | | |  
  
Earnings (loss) per common share (dollars) (1)

| 13.26 | | | 5.39 | | | (5.25)|  
| | | | |  
  
Dividends paid per common share (dollars)

| 3.55 | | | 3.49 | | | 3.48 |  
| | | | |  
  
(1) The earnings (loss) per common share and earnings (loss) per common share
- assuming dilution are the same in each period shown.  
  
99

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

13\. Financial Instruments and Derivatives

The estimated fair value of financial instruments and derivatives at December
31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, and the related hierarchy level for the fair
value measurement was as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31, 2022  
|  
| Fair Value| |  | |  | |  | |  
(millions of dollars)| Level 1| | Level 2| | Level 3| | Total Gross Assets &
Liabilities| | Effect of Counterparty Netting| | Effect of Collateral Netting|
| Difference in Carrying Value and Fair Value| | Net Carrying Value  
Assets|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
Derivative assets (1)

| 4,309 | | | 3,455 | | | -- | | | 7,764 | | | (5,778)| | | (969)| | | -- | |
| 1,017 |  
  
Advances to/receivables from equity

companies (2)(6)

| -- | | | 2,406 | | | 4,958 | | | 7,364 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 685 | | |
8,049 |  
  
Other long-term financial assets (3)

| 1,208 | | | -- | | | 1,413 | | | 2,621 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 346 | | |
2,967 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Liabilities| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Derivative liabilities (4)

| 3,417 | | | 3,264 | | | -- | | | 6,681 | | | (5,778)| | | (79)| | | -- | | |
824 |  
  
Long-term debt (5)

| 33,112 | | | 1,880 | | | 6 | | | 34,998 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 4,173 | | |
39,171 |  
  
Long-term obligations to equity companies (6)

| -- | | | -- | | | 2,467 | | | 2,467 | | | -- | | | -- | | | (129)| | | 2,338
|  
  
Other long-term financial liabilities (7)

| -- | | | -- | | | 679 | | | 679 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 38 | | | 717 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31, 2021  
|  
| Fair Value| |  | |  | |  | |  
(millions of dollars)| Level 1| | Level 2| | Level 3| | Total Gross Assets &
Liabilities| | Effect of Counterparty Netting| | Effect of Collateral Netting|
| Difference in Carrying Value and Fair Value| | Net Carrying Value  
Assets|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
Derivative assets (1)

| 1,422 | | | 1,523 | | | -- | | | 2,945 | | | (1,930)| | | (28)| | | -- | | |
987 |  
  
Advances to/receivables from equity

companies (2)(6)

| -- | | | 3,076 | | | 5,373 | | | 8,449 | | | -- | | | -- | | | (123)| | |
8,326 |  
  
Other long-term financial assets (3)

| 1,134 | | | -- | | | 1,058 | | | 2,192 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 181 | | |
2,373 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Liabilities| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Derivative liabilities (4)

| 1,701 | | | 2,594 | | | -- | | | 4,295 | | | (1,930)| | | (306)| | | -- | |
| 2,059 |  
  
Long-term debt (5)

| 44,454 | | | 88 | | | 3 | | | 44,545 | | | -- | | | -- | | | (2,878)| | |
41,667 |  
  
Long-term obligations to equity companies (6)

| -- | | | -- | | | 3,084 | | | 3,084 | | | -- | | | -- | | | (227)| | | 2,857
|  
  
Other long-term financial liabilities (7)

| -- | | | -- | | | 902 | | | 902 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 58 | | | 960 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Included in the Balance Sheet lines: Notes and accounts receivable - net
and Other assets, including intangibles - net.  
  
(2) Included in the Balance Sheet line: Investments, advances and long-term
receivables.  
  
(3) Included in the Balance Sheet lines: Investments, advances and long-term
receivables and Other assets, including intangibles - net.  
  
(4) Included in the Balance Sheet lines: Accounts payable and accrued
liabilities and Other long-term obligations.  
  
(5) Excluding finance lease obligations.  
  
(6) Advances to/receivables from equity companies and long-term obligations to
equity companies are mainly designated as hierarchy level 3 inputs. The fair
value is calculated by discounting the remaining obligations by a rate
consistent with the credit quality and industry of the company.  
  
(7) Included in the Balance Sheet line: Other long-term obligations. Includes
contingent consideration related to a prior year acquisition where fair value
is based on expected drilling activities and discount rates.  
  
.

At December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively, the Corporation had
$1,494 million and $641 million of collateral under master netting
arrangements not offset against the derivatives on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet, primarily related to initial margin requirements.

100

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Derivative Instruments. The Corporation's size, strong capital structure,
geographic diversity, and the complementary nature of its business segments
reduce the Corporation's enterprise-wide risk from changes in commodity
prices, currency rates, and interest rates. In addition, the Corporation uses
commodity-based contracts, including derivatives, to manage commodity price
risk and to generate returns from trading. Commodity contracts held for
trading purposes are presented in the Consolidated Statement of Income on a
net basis in the line "Sales and other operating revenue". The Corporation's
commodity derivatives are not accounted for under hedge accounting. At times,
the Corporation also enters into currency and interest rate derivatives, none
of which are material to the Corporation's financial position as of December
31, 2022 and 2021, or results of operations for 2022, 2021, and 2020.

Credit risk associated with the Corporation's derivative position is mitigated
by several factors, including the use of derivative clearing exchanges and the
quality of and financial limits placed on derivative counterparties. The
Corporation maintains a system of controls that includes the authorization,
reporting, and monitoring of derivative activity.

The net notional long/(short) position of derivative instruments at December
31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, was as follows:

  

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions)| December 31,| | December 31,  
2022| | 2021  
| | |  
Crude oil (barrels)| 4 | | | 82 |  
Petroleum products (barrels)| (52)| | | (48)|  
Natural gas (MMBTUs)| (64)| | | (115)|  
| | |  
| | |  
  
  

Realized and unrealized gains/(losses) on derivative instruments that were
recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income are included in the
following lines on a before-tax basis:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
Sales and other operating revenue| (1,763)| | | (3,818)| | | 404 |  
Crude oil and product purchases| 314 | | | 48 | | | (407)|  
Total| (1,449)| | | (3,770)| | | (3)|  
  
14\. Long-Term Debt

At December 31, 2022, long-term debt consisted of $34,507 million due in U.S.
dollars and $6,052 million representing the U.S. dollar equivalent at year-end
exchange rates of amounts payable in foreign currencies. These amounts exclude
that portion of long-term debt, totaling $181 million, which matures within
one year and is included in current liabilities.

On December 22, 2022, the Company irrevocably deposited sufficient cash with
the Trustee to fund (i) the redemption of its 2.726% notes due 2023 and (ii)
the redemption of its 1.571% notes due 2023. After the deposit of the funds,
the Corporation was released from its obligation and the debt was
extinguished.

The amounts of long-term debt, excluding finance lease obligations, maturing
in each of the four years after December 31, 2023, in millions of dollars,
are: 2024 - $4,665; 2025 - $4,667; 2026 - $3,644; and 2027 - $1,090. At
December 31, 2022, the Corporation's unused long-term lines of credit were
$1.2 billion.

The Corporation may use non-derivative financial instruments, such as its
foreign currency-denominated debt, as hedges of its net investments in certain
foreign subsidiaries. Under this method, the change in the carrying value of
the financial instruments due to foreign exchange fluctuations is reported in
accumulated other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2022, the
Corporation has designated its $4.8 billion of Euro-denominated long-term debt
and related accrued interest as a net investment hedge of its European
business. The net investment hedge is deemed to be perfectly effective.

  

101

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Summarized long-term debt at year-end 2022 and 2021 are shown in the table
below:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars, except where stated otherwise)|

Average

Rate (1)

| | Dec 31, 2022| | Dec 31, 2021  
| | | |  
  
Exxon Mobil Corporation (2)

|  | |  | |  
  
1.571% notes due 2023

| | | -- | | | 2,750 |  
  
2.726% notes due 2023

| | | -- | | | 1,250 |  
  
3.176% notes due 2024

| | | 1,000 | | | 1,000 |  
  
2.019% notes due 2024

| | | 1,000 | | | 1,000 |  
  
2.709% notes due 2025

| | | 1,750 | | | 1,750 |  
  
2.992% notes due 2025

| | | 2,781 | | | 2,794 |  
  
3.043% notes due 2026

| | | 2,500 | | | 2,500 |  
  
2.275% notes due 2026

| | | 1,000 | | | 1,000 |  
  
3.294% notes due 2027

| | | 1,000 | | | 1,000 |  
  
2.440% notes due 2029

| | | 1,250 | | | 1,250 |  
  
3.482% notes due 2030

| | | 2,000 | | | 2,000 |  
  
2.610% notes due 2030

| | | 2,000 | | | 2,000 |  
  
2.995% notes due 2039

| | | 750 | | | 750 |  
  
4.227% notes due 2040

| | | 2,084 | | | 2,087 |  
  
3.567% notes due 2045

| | | 1,000 | | | 1,000 |  
  
4.114% notes due 2046

| | | 2,500 | | | 2,500 |  
  
3.095% notes due 2049

| | | 1,500 | | | 1,500 |  
  
4.327% notes due 2050

| | | 2,750 | | | 2,750 |  
  
3.452% notes due 2051

| | | 2,750 | | | 2,750 |  
Exxon Mobil Corporation - Euro-denominated| | | | |  
  
0.142% notes due 2024

| | | 1,600 | | | 1,698 |  
  
0.524% notes due 2028

| | | 1,066 | | | 1,133 |  
  
0.835% notes due 2032

| | | 1,066 | | | 1,133 |  
  
1.408% notes due 2039

| | | 1,066 | | | 1,133 |  
  
XTO Energy Inc. (3)

| | | | |  
  
6.100% senior notes due 2036

| | | 189 | | | 191 |  
  
6.750% senior notes due 2037

| | | 289 | | | 291 |  
  
6.375% senior notes due 2038

| | | 224 | | | 226 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Industrial revenue bonds due 2022-2051| 1.000%| | 2,245 | | | 2,244 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Finance leases & other obligations | 5.856%| | 3,299 | | | 1,862 |  
Debt issuance costs| | | (100)| | | (114)|  
Total long-term debt| | | 40,559 | | | 43,428 |  
| | | | |  
  
(1) Average effective or imputed interest rates at December 31, 2022.  
  
(2) Includes premiums of $115 million in 2022 and $131 million in 2021.  
  
(3) Includes premiums of $76 million in 2022 and $82 million in 2021.  
  
  
  
  
  

102

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

15\. Incentive Program

The 2003 Incentive Program provides for grants of stock options, stock
appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock, and other forms of awards.
Awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation and those
affiliates at least 50 percent owned. Outstanding awards are subject to
certain forfeiture provisions contained in the program or award instrument.
Options and SARs may be granted at prices not less than 100 percent of market
value on the date of grant and have a maximum life of 10 years. The maximum
number of shares of stock that may be issued under the 2003 Incentive Program
is 220 million. Awards that are forfeited, expire, or are settled in cash, do
not count against this maximum limit. The 2003 Incentive Program does not have
a specified term. New awards may be made until the available shares are
depleted, unless the Board terminates the plan early. At the end of 2022,
remaining shares available for award under the 2003 Incentive Program were 60
million.

Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units. Awards totaling 9,392 thousand,
8,133 thousand, and 8,681 thousand of restricted (nonvested) common stock
units were granted in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. Compensation expense
for these awards is based on the price of the stock at the date of grant and
is recognized in income over the requisite service period. Shares for these
awards are issued to employees from treasury stock. The units that are settled
in cash are recorded as liabilities, and their changes in fair value are
recognized over the vesting period. During the applicable restricted periods,
the shares and units may not be sold or transferred and are subject to
forfeiture. The majority of the awards have graded vesting periods, with 50
percent of the shares and units in each award vesting after three years, and
the remaining 50 percent vesting after seven years. As a result of an
expansion of the program in 2022, some new participants will be eligible for
awards that vest in full after three years. Awards granted to a small number
of senior executives have vesting periods of five years for 50 percent of the
award and of 10 years for the remaining 50 percent of the award, except that
for awards granted prior to 2020 the vesting of the 10-year portion of the
award is delayed until retirement if later than 10 years.

The following tables summarize information about restricted stock and
restricted stock units for the year ended December 31, 2022.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Restricted stock and units outstanding| 2022  
Shares| Weighted-Average  
Grant-Date  
Fair Value per Share  
| (thousands)| (dollars)  
Issued and outstanding at January 1| 38,922 | | 70.38 |  
Awards issued in 2022| 8,222 | | 63.49 |  
Vested| (9,235)| | 76.31 |  
Forfeited| (336)| | 63.67 |  
Issued and outstanding at December 31| 37,573 | | 67.47 |  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Value of restricted stock units| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Grant price (dollars)

| 110.46 | | | 62.76 | | | 41.15 |  
| | | | |  
Value at date of grant:| (millions of dollars)  
Units settled in stock| 931 | | | 461 | | | 325 |  
Units settled in cash| 106 | | | 49 | | | 32 |  
Total value| 1,037 | | | 510 | | | 357 |  
  
As of December 31, 2022, there was $1,765 million of unrecognized compensation
cost related to the nonvested restricted awards. This cost is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 4.8 years. The compensation cost
charged against income for the restricted stock and restricted stock units was
$648 million, $612 million, and $672 million for 2022, 2021, and 2020,
respectively. The income tax benefit recognized in income related to this
compensation expense was $52 million, $49 million, and $51 million for the
same periods, respectively. The fair value of shares and units vested in 2022,
2021, and 2020 was $1,027 million, $562 million, and $367 million,
respectively. Cash payments of $89 million, $48 million, and $34 million for
vested restricted stock units settled in cash were made in 2022, 2021, and
2020, respectively.

103

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

16\. Litigation and Other Contingencies

Litigation. A variety of claims have been made against ExxonMobil and certain
of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Management
has regular litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside
counsel, to assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these
contingencies. The Corporation accrues an undiscounted liability for those
contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable and the amount can be
reasonably estimated. If a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated and no
amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, then the
minimum of the range is accrued. The Corporation does not record liabilities
when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable but the
amount cannot be reasonably estimated or when the liability is believed to be
only reasonably possible or remote. For contingencies where an unfavorable
outcome is reasonably possible and which are significant, the Corporation
discloses the nature of the contingency and, where feasible, an estimate of
the possible loss. For purposes of our contingency disclosures, "significant"
includes material matters, as well as other matters, which management believes
should be disclosed. ExxonMobil will continue to defend itself vigorously in
these matters. Based on a consideration of all relevant facts and
circumstances, the Corporation does not believe the ultimate outcome of any
currently pending lawsuit against ExxonMobil will have a material adverse
effect upon the Corporation's operations, financial condition, or financial
statements taken as a whole.

Other Contingencies. The Corporation and certain of its consolidated
subsidiaries were contingently liable at December 31, 2022, for guarantees
relating to notes, loans and performance under contracts. Where guarantees for
environmental remediation and other similar matters do not include a stated
cap, the amounts reflect management's estimate of the maximum potential
exposure. Where it is not possible to make a reasonable estimation of the
maximum potential amount of future payments, future performance is expected to
be either immaterial or have only a remote chance of occurrence.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31, 2022  
| | | | |  
(millions of dollars)|

Equity Company Obligations (1)

| | Other Third-Party Obligations| | Total  
| | | | |  
Guarantees|  | |  | |  
Debt-related| 1,206 | | | 152 | | | 1,358 |  
Other| 728 | | | 5,374 | | | 6,102 |  
Total| 1,934 | | | 5,526 | | | 7,460 |  
| | | | |  
  
(1) ExxonMobil share.  
  
Additionally, the Corporation and its affiliates have numerous long-term sales
and purchase commitments in their various business activities, all of which
are expected to be fulfilled with no adverse consequences material to the
Corporation's operations or financial condition.

  

104

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

17\. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

The benefit obligations and plan assets associated with the Corporation's
principal benefit plans are measured on December 31.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits| | Other Postretirement Benefits  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
(millions of dollars, except where stated otherwise)| U.S.| | Non-U.S.| |  
2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December
31|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
Discount rate (percent)

| 5.60 | | | 3.00 | | | 4.90 | | | 2.20 | | | 5.60 | | | 3.10 |  
  
Long-term rate of compensation increase (percent)

| 4.50 | | | 4.50 | | | 5.20 | | | 4.20 | | | 4.50 | | | 4.50 |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Change in benefit obligation| | | | | | | | | | |  
Benefit obligation at January 1| 18,511 | | | 21,662 | | | 29,492 | | | 33,626
| | | 7,265 | | | 8,135 |  
Service cost| 712 | | | 919 | | | 570 | | | 774 | | | 138 | | | 188 |  
Interest cost| 518 | | | 558 | | | 614 | | | 526 | | | 216 | | | 221 |  
  
Actuarial loss/(gain) (1)

| (4,432)| | | (747)| | | (7,742)| | | (2,803)| | | (1,990)| | | (881)|  
  
Benefits paid (2)(3)

| (2,959)| | | (3,810)| | | (1,415)| | | (1,550)| | | (492)| | | (517)|  
Foreign exchange rate changes| -- | | | -- | | | (2,258)| | | (1,162)| | |
(47)| | | 3 |  
Amendments, divestments and other| -- | | | (71)| | | 81 | | | 81 | | | 121 |
| | 116 |  
Benefit obligation at December 31| 12,350 | | | 18,511 | | | 19,342 | | |
29,492 | | | 5,211 | | | 7,265 |  
Accumulated benefit obligation at December 31| 10,367 | | | 15,781 | | |
18,047 | | | 27,373 | | | -- | | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Actuarial loss/(gain) primarily reflects higher discount rates.  
  
(2) Benefit payments for funded and unfunded plans.  
  
(3) For 2022 and 2021, other postretirement benefits paid are net of $24
million and $9 million of Medicare subsidy receipts, respectively.  
  
For selection of the discount rate for U.S. plans, several sources of
information are considered, including interest rate market indicators and the
effective discount rate determined by use of a yield curve based on high-
quality, noncallable bonds applied to the estimated cash outflows for benefit
payments. For major non-U.S. plans, the discount rate is determined by using a
spot yield curve of high-quality, local-currency-denominated bonds at an
average maturity approximating that of the liabilities.

The measurement of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation assumes a
health care cost trend rate of 4.0 percent in 2024 and subsequent years.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits| | Other Postretirement Benefits  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
(millions of dollars)| U.S.| | Non-U.S.| |  
2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
Change in plan assets|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Fair value at January 1| 13,266 | | | 15,300 | | | 24,880 | | | 26,216 | | |
440 | | | 446 |  
Actual return on plan assets| (3,265)| | | 479 | | | (5,287)| | | 571 | | |
(66)| | | 20 |  
Foreign exchange rate changes| -- | | | -- | | | (2,012)| | | (605)| | | -- |
| | -- |  
Company contribution| 3,596 | | | 794 | | | 655 | | | 293 | | | 27 | | | 28 |  
  
Benefits paid (1)

| (2,608)| | | (3,307)| | | (1,070)| | | (1,167)| | | (53)| | | (54)|  
Other| -- | | | -- | | | (409)| | | (428)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Fair value at December 31| 10,989 | | | 13,266 | | | 16,757 | | | 24,880 | | |
348 | | | 440 |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Benefit payments for funded plans.  
  
105

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The funding levels of all qualified pension plans are in compliance with
standards set by applicable law or regulation. As shown in the table below,
certain smaller U.S. pension plans and a number of non-U.S. pension plans are
not funded because local applicable tax rules and regulatory practices do not
encourage funding of these plans. All defined benefit pension obligations,
regardless of the funding status of the underlying plans, are fully supported
by the financial strength of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring
affiliate.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits  
| | | | | | |  
(millions of dollars)| U.S.| | Non-U.S.  
2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
Assets in excess of/(less than) benefit obligation|  | | | | | |  
Balance at December 31|  | |  | |  | |  
Funded plans| (23)| | | (3,570)| | | 1,019 | | | 554 |  
Unfunded plans| (1,338)| | | (1,675)| | | (3,604)| | | (5,166)|  
Total| (1,361)| | | (5,245)| | | (2,585)| | | (4,612)|  
  
The authoritative guidance for defined benefit pension and other
postretirement plans requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or
underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or
liability in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in
that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through other
comprehensive income.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits| | Other Postretirement Benefits  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
(millions of dollars)| U.S.| | Non-U.S.| | | |  
2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
Assets in excess of/(less than) benefit obligation|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
Balance at December 31 (1)

| (1,361)| | | (5,245)| | | (2,585)| | | (4,612)| | | (4,863)| | | (6,825)|  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Amounts recorded in the consolidated balance sheet consist of:| | | | | | | |
| | |  
Other assets| -- | | | -- | | | 1,962 | | | 2,544 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Current liabilities| (168)| | | (206)| | | (254)| | | (267)| | | (304)| | |
(323)|  
Postretirement benefits reserves| (1,193)| | | (5,039)| | | (4,293)| | |
(6,889)| | | (4,559)| | | (6,502)|  
Total recorded| (1,361)| | | (5,245)| | | (2,585)| | | (4,612)| | | (4,863)| |
| (6,825)|  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income consist of:| | | |
| | | | | | |  
Net actuarial loss/(gain)| 897 | | | 1,865 | | | 846 | | | 2,841 | | |
(1,726)| | | 197 |  
Prior service cost| (295)| | | (324)| | | 278 | | | 262 | | | (190)| | |
(232)|  
Total recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income| 602 | | | 1,541 | |
| 1,124 | | | 3,103 | | | (1,916)| | | (35)|  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Fair value of assets less benefit obligation shown on the preceding page.  
  
106

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The long-term expected rate of return on funded assets shown below is
established for each benefit plan by developing a forward-looking, long-term
return assumption for each asset class, taking into account factors such as
the expected real return for the specific asset class and inflation. A single,
long-term rate of return is then calculated as the weighted average of the
target asset allocation percentages and the long-term return assumption for
each asset class.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits| | Other Postretirement  
Benefits  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
(millions of dollars, except where stated otherwise)| U.S.| | Non-U.S.| | | |
| |  
2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for
years ended December 31| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Discount rate (percent)

| 3.00 | | | 2.80 | | | 3.50 | | | 2.20 | | | 1.60 | | | 2.30 | | | 3.10 | | |
2.80 | | | 3.50 |  
  
Long-term rate of return on funded assets (percent)

| 4.60 | | | 5.30 | | | 5.30 | | | 3.50 | | | 4.10 | | | 4.10 | | | 3.80 | | |
4.60 | | | 4.60 |  
  
Long-term rate of compensation increase (percent)

| 4.50 | | | 5.50 | | | 5.75 | | | 4.20 | | | 4.20 | | | 4.80 | | | 4.50 | | |
5.50 | | | 5.75 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Components of net periodic benefit cost| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Service cost| 712 | | | 919 | | | 965 | | | 570 | | | 774 | | | 707 | | | 138
| | | 188 | | | 181 |  
Interest cost| 518 | | | 558 | | | 708 | | | 614 | | | 526 | | | 657 | | | 216
| | | 221 | | | 277 |  
Expected return on plan assets| (560)| | | (722)| | | (703)| | | (815)| | |
(1,031)| | | (897)| | | (14)| | | (19)| | | (18)|  
Amortization of actuarial loss/(gain)| 156 | | | 244 | | | 310 | | | 180 | | |
420 | | | 416 | | | 6 | | | 76 | | | 95 |  
Amortization of prior service cost| (29)| | | (23)| | | 5 | | | 43 | | | 57 |
| | 68 | | | (42)| | | (42)| | | (42)|  
Net pension enhancement and curtailment/settlement cost| 205 | | | 489 | | |
280 | | | 4 | | | 32 | | | 49 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Net periodic benefit cost| 1,002 | | | 1,465 | | | 1,565 | | | 596 | | | 778 |
| | 1,000 | | | 304 | | | 424 | | | 493 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Changes in amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income:| | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Net actuarial loss/(gain)| (607)| | | (504)| | | (279)| | | (1,641)| | |
(2,361)| | | 446 | | | (1,910)| | | (891)| | | (92)|  
Amortization of actuarial (loss)/gain| (361)| | | (733)| | | (590)| | | (183)|
| | (430)| | | (442)| | | (6)| | | (76)| | | (95)|  
Prior service cost/(credit)| -- | | | (72)| | | (271)| | | 84 | | | 92 | | |
(82)| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Amortization of prior service (cost)/credit| 29 | | | 23 | | | (5)| | | (40)|
| | (55)| | | (68)| | | 42 | | | 42 | | | 42 |  
Foreign exchange rate changes| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (199)| | | (255)| |
| 236 | | | (7)| | | -- | | | 11 |  
Total recorded in other comprehensive income| (939)| | | (1,286)| | | (1,145)|
| | (1,979)| | | (3,009)| | | 90 | | | (1,881)| | | (925)| | | (134)|  
Total recorded in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income,
before tax| 63 | | | 179 | | | 420 | | | (1,383)| | | (2,231)| | | 1,090 | | |
(1,577)| | | (501)| | | 359 |  
  
Costs for defined contribution plans were $365 million, $177 million and $358
million in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.

107

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income is shown in
the table below:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Total Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits  
| | | | |  
  
(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
(Charge)/credit to other comprehensive income, before tax|  | |  | |  
U.S. pension| 939 | | | 1,286 | | | 1,145 |  
Non-U.S. pension| 1,979 | | | 3,009 | | | (90)|  
Other postretirement benefits| 1,881 | | | 925 | | | 134 |  
Total (charge)/credit to other comprehensive income, before tax| 4,799 | | |
5,220 | | | 1,189 |  
(Charge)/credit to income tax (see Note 4)| (1,236)| | | (1,287)| | | (153)|  
(Charge)/credit to investment in equity companies| 235 | | | 110 | | | (110)|  
(Charge)/credit to other comprehensive income including noncontrolling
interests, after tax| 3,798 | | | 4,043 | | | 926 |  
Charge/(credit) to equity of noncontrolling interests| (212)| | | (217)| | |
30 |  
(Charge)/credit to other comprehensive income attributable to ExxonMobil|
3,586 | | | 3,826 | | | 956 |  
  
The Corporation's investment strategy for benefit plan assets reflects a long-
term view, a careful assessment of the risks inherent in plan assets and
liabilities, and broad diversification to reduce the risk of the portfolio.
The benefit plan assets are primarily invested in passive global equity and
local currency fixed income index funds to diversify risk while minimizing
costs. The equity funds hold ExxonMobil stock only to the extent necessary to
replicate the relevant equity index. The fixed income funds are largely
invested in investment grade corporate and government debt securities with
interest rate sensitivity designed to approximate the interest rate
sensitivity of plan liabilities.

Target asset allocations for benefit plans are reviewed periodically and set
based on considerations such as risk, diversification, liquidity, and funding
level. The target asset allocations for the major benefit plans range from 10
to 30 percent in equity securities and the remainder in fixed income
securities. The equity for the U.S. and certain non-U.S. plans include
allocations to private equity partnerships that primarily focus on early-stage
venture capital of less than 5 percent.

The fair value measurement levels are accounting terms that refer to different
methods of valuing assets. The terms do not represent the relative risk or
credit quality of an investment.

108

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The 2022 fair value of the benefit plan assets, including the level within the
fair value hierarchy, is shown in the tables below:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | U.S. Pension| | Non-U.S. Pension  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
(millions of dollars)| |

Fair Value Measurement at

December 31, 2022, Using:

| | |

Fair Value Measurement at

December 31, 2022, Using:

| |  
| Level 1| | Level 2|  | | Level 3| | Net Asset Value| | Total| | Level 1|  |
| Level 2|  | | Level 3| | Net Asset Value| | Total  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Asset category:| |  | |  |  | |  | |  | | | |  |  | |  |  | |  | |  | |  
Equity securities| |  | |  |  | |  | |  | | | |  |  | |  |  | |  | |  | |  
U.S.| | -- | | | -- | |  | | -- | | | 1,726 | | | 1,726 | | | -- | |  | | -- |
|  | | -- | | | 2,318 | | | 2,318 |  
Non-U.S.| | -- | | | -- | |  | | -- | | | 1,131 | | | 1,131 | | | 61 | | (1)|
| -- | |  | | -- | | | 1,676 | | | 1,737 |  
Private equity| | -- | | | -- | |  | | -- | | | 506 | | | 506 | | | -- | |  |
| -- | |  | | -- | | | 472 | | | 472 |  
Debt securities| | | | |  | | | | | | | | |  | | |  | | | | | |  
Corporate| | -- | | | 4,582 | | (2)| | -- | | | 1 | | | 4,583 | | | -- | |  |
| 63 | | (2)| | -- | | | 4,199 | | | 4,262 |  
Government| | -- | | | 2,869 | | (2)| | -- | | | 2 | | | 2,871 | | | 202 | |
(3)| | 144 | | (2)| | -- | | | 7,189 | | | 7,535 |  
Asset-backed| | -- | | | -- | |  | | -- | | | 1 | | | 1 | | | -- | |  | | 22 |
| (2)| | -- | | | 185 | | | 207 |  
Cash| | -- | | | -- | |  | | -- | | | 168 | | | 168 | | | 88 | |  | | 40 | |
(4)| | -- | | | 77 | | | 205 |  
Total at fair value| | -- | | | 7,451 | |  | | -- | | | 3,535 | | | 10,986 | |
| 351 | |  | | 269 | |  | | -- | | | 16,116 | | | 16,736 |  
Insurance contracts at contract value| |  | |  |  | | | | | | 3 | | | |  | |
|  | | | | | | 21 |  
Total plan assets| |  | |  |  | | | | | | 10,989 | | | |  | |  |  | | | | | |
16,757 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) For non-U.S. equity securities held in separate accounts, fair value is
based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges.  
  
(2) For corporate, government and asset-backed debt securities, fair value is
based on observable inputs of comparable market transactions.  
  
(3) For government debt securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair
value is based on observable quoted prices.  
  
(4) For cash balances that are subject to withdrawal penalties or other
adjustments, the fair value is treated as a Level 2 input.  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Other Postretirement  
| | | | | | | | | |  
(millions of dollars)| Fair Value Measurement at December 31, 2022, Using:| |  
Level 1| | Level 2| | | Level 3| | Net Asset Value| | Total  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Asset category:|  | |  | | |  | |  | |  
Equity securities|  | |  | | |  | |  | |  
U.S.| 70 | | (1)| -- | | | | -- | | | -- | | | 70 |  
Non-U.S.| 37 | | (1)| -- | | | | -- | | | -- | | | 37 |  
Debt securities| | | | | | | | | |  
Corporate| -- | | | 59 | | (2)| | -- | | | -- | | | 59 |  
Government| -- | | | 175 | | (2)| | -- | | | -- | | | 175 |  
Asset-backed| -- | | | 4 | | (2)| | -- | | | -- | | | 4 |  
Cash| -- | | | 3 | | | | -- | | | -- | | | 3 |  
Total at fair value| 107 | | | 241 | | | | -- | | | -- | | | 348 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) For equity securities held in separate accounts, fair value is based on
observable quoted prices on active exchanges.  
  
(2) For corporate, government and asset-backed debt securities, fair value is
based on observable inputs of comparable market transactions.  
  
109

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The 2021 fair value of the benefit plan assets, including the level within the
fair value hierarchy, is shown in the tables below:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | U.S. Pension| | Non-U.S. Pension  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
(millions of dollars)| |

Fair Value Measurement at

December 31, 2021, Using:

| | | |

Fair Value Measurement at

December 31, 2021, Using:

| |  
| Level 1| | Level 2|  | | Level 3| | Net Asset Value| | Total|  | Level 1|  |
| Level 2|  | | Level 3| | Net Asset Value| | Total  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Asset category:| |  | |  |  | |  | |  | | | |  |  | |  |  | |  | |  | |  
Equity securities| |  | |  |  | |  | |  | | | |  |  | |  |  | |  | |  | |  
U.S.| | -- | | | -- | |  | | -- | | | 1,956 | | | 1,956 | | | -- | |  | | -- |
|  | | -- | | | 3,416 | | | 3,416 |  
Non-U.S.| | -- | | | -- | |  | | -- | | | 1,290 | | | 1,290 | | | 76 | | (1)|
| -- | |  | | -- | | | 2,424 | | | 2,500 |  
Private equity| | -- | | | -- | |  | | -- | | | 661 | | | 661 | | | -- | |  |
| -- | |  | | -- | | | 627 | | | 627 |  
Debt securities| | | | |  | | | | | | | | |  | | |  | | | | | |  
Corporate| | -- | | | 5,242 | | (2)| | -- | | | 1 | | | 5,243 | | | -- | |  |
119 | | (2)| | -- | | | 5,831 | | | 5,950 |  
Government| | -- | | | 3,945 | | (2)| | -- | | | 2 | | | 3,947 | | | 209 | |
(3)| | 97 | | (2)| | -- | | | 11,620 | | | 11,926 |  
Asset-backed| | -- | | | -- | |  | | -- | | | 1 | | | 1 | | | -- | |  | | 25 |
| (2)| | -- | | | 191 | | | 216 |  
Cash| | -- | | | -- | |  | | -- | | | 162 | | | 162 | | | 62 | |  | | 53 | |
(4)| | -- | | | 108 | | | 223 |  
Total at fair value| | -- | | | 9,187 | |  | | -- | | | 4,073 | | | 13,260 | |
| 347 | |  | | 294 | |  | | -- | | | 24,217 | | | 24,858 |  
Insurance contracts at contract value| |  | |  |  | | | | | | 6 | | |  |  | |
|  | | | | | | 22 |  
Total plan assets| |  | |  |  | | | | | | 13,266 | | |  |  | |  |  | | | | | |
24,880 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) For non-U.S. equity securities held in separate accounts, fair value is
based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges.  
  
(2) For corporate, government and asset-backed debt securities, fair value is
based on observable inputs of comparable market transactions.  
  
(3) For government debt securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair
value is based on observable quoted prices.  
  
(4) For cash balances that are subject to withdrawal penalties or other
adjustments, the fair value is treated as a Level 2 input.  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Other Postretirement  
| | | | | | | | | |  
(millions of dollars)| Fair Value Measurement at December 31, 2021, Using:| |  
Level 1| | Level 2| | | Level 3| | Net Asset Value| | Total  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Asset category:|  | |  | | |  | |  | |  
Equity securities|  | |  | | |  | |  | |  
U.S.| 91 | | (1)| -- | | | | -- | | | -- | | | 91 |  
Non-U.S.| 45 | | (1)| -- | | | | -- | | | -- | | | 45 |  
Debt securities| | | | | | | | | |  
Corporate| -- | | | 95 | | (2)| | -- | | | -- | | | 95 |  
Government| -- | | | 206 | | (2)| | -- | | | -- | | | 206 |  
Asset-backed| -- | | | -- | | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Cash| -- | | | 3 | | | | -- | | | -- | | | 3 |  
Total at fair value| 136 | | | 304 | | | | -- | | | -- | | | 440 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) For equity securities held in separate accounts, fair value is based on
observable quoted prices on active exchanges.  
  
(2) For corporate, government and asset-backed debt securities, fair value is
based on observable inputs of comparable market transactions.  
  
110

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary of pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation and
projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is shown in the table
below:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits  
| | | | | | |  
(millions of dollars)| U.S.| | Non-U.S.  
2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
| | | | | | |  
  
For funded pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of
plan assets:

| | |  | |  | |  
Accumulated benefit obligation| -- | | | 14,511 | | | 1,098 | | | 3,108 |  
Fair value of plan assets| -- | | | 13,266 | | | 400 | | | 1,711 |  
| | | | | | |  
  
For funded pension plans with a projected benefit obligation in

excess of plan assets:

| | | | | | |  
Projected benefit obligation| 11,012 | | | 16,836 | | | 1,956 | | | 4,840 |  
Fair value of plan assets| 10,989 | | | 13,266 | | | 1,012 | | | 2,849 |  
| | | | | | |  
  
For unfunded pension plans:

| | | | | | |  
Projected benefit obligation| 1,338 | | | 1,675 | | | 3,604 | | | 5,166 |  
Accumulated benefit obligation| 1,045 | | | 1,270 | | | 3,261 | | | 4,685 |  
  
All other postretirement benefit plans are unfunded or underfunded.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits| | Other Postretirement Benefits  
| | | | | | |  
(millions of dollars)| U.S.| | Non-U.S.| | Gross| | Medicare Subsidy Receipt  
| | | | | | |  
  
Contributions expected in 2023

| -- | | | 570 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Benefit payments expected in:| | | | | | |  
2023| 956 | | | 1,149 | | | 399 | | | 21 |  
2024| 963 | | | 1,140 | | | 395 | | | 22 |  
2025| 985 | | | 1,123 | | | 391 | | | 23 |  
2026| 1,009 | | | 1,109 | | | 385 | | | 24 |  
2027| 1,024 | | | 1,154 | | | 382 | | | 24 |  
  
2028 - 2032

| 5,430 | | | 5,978 | | | 1,930 | | | 128 |  
  
  

18\. Disclosures about Segments and Related Information

The Upstream, Energy Products, Chemical Products, and Specialty Products
functions best define the operating segments of the business that are reported
separately. The factors used to identify these reportable segments are based
on the nature of the operations that are undertaken by each segment. The
Upstream segment is organized and operates to explore for and produce crude
oil and natural gas. Energy Products, Chemical Products, and Specialty
Products segments are organized and operate to manufacture and sell petroleum
products and petrochemicals.

•Energy Products: Fuels, aromatics, and catalysts and licensing

•Chemical Products: Olefins, polyolefins, and intermediates

•Specialty Products: Finished lubricants, basestocks and waxes, synthetics,
and elastomers and resins

These functions have been defined as the operating segments of the Corporation
because they are the segments (1) that engage in business activities from
which revenues are recognized and expenses are incurred; (2) whose operating
results are regularly reviewed by the Corporation's chief operating decision
maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to
assess its performance; and (3) for which discrete financial information is
available.

Earnings after income tax include transfers at estimated market prices.

In Corporate and Financing, interest revenue relates to interest earned on
cash deposits and marketable securities. Interest expense includes non-debt-
related interest expense of $117 million in 2022, $103 million in 2021, and
$148 million in 2020.

111

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| | Upstream| | Energy Products| | Chemical Products| |
Specialty Products| | Corporate and Financing| | Corporate Total  
| U.S.| | Non-U.S.| | U.S.| | Non-U.S.| | U.S.| | Non-U.S.| | U.S.| |
Non-U.S.| |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
As of December 31, 2022| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | | | | | |  | |  
Earnings (loss) after income tax| | 11,728 | | | 24,751 | | | 8,340 | | |
6,626 | | | 2,328 | | | 1,215 | | | 1,190 | | | 1,225 | | | (1,663)| | |
55,740 |  
Earnings of equity companies included above| | 411 | | | 10,133 | | | 126 | |
| 322 | | | 91 | | | 771 | | | -- | | | (23)| | | (368)| | | 11,463 |  
Sales and other operating revenue| | 14,579 | | | 30,585 | | | 117,824 | | |
188,153 | | | 10,670 | | | 16,949 | | | 6,152 | | | 13,727 | | | 36 | | |
398,675 |  
Intersegment revenue| | 25,658 | | | 46,076 | | | 29,001 | | | 36,894 | | |
9,081 | | | 5,201 | | | 2,587 | | | 825 | | | 241 | | | -- |  
Depreciation and depletion expense| | 5,791 | | | 14,013 | | | 741 | | | 1,246
| | | 542 | | | 446 | | | 95 | | | 193 | | | 973 | | | 24,040 |  
Interest revenue| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | -- | | | 446 | | | 446 |  
Interest expense| | 51 | | | 38 | | | 1 | | | 7 | | | -- | | | 1 | | | -- | |
| 1 | | | 699 | | | 798 |  
Income tax expense (benefit)| | 3,330 | | | 11,575 | | | 2,615 | | | 2,420 | |
| 520 | | | 292 | | | 334 | | | 252 | | | (1,162)| | | 20,176 |  
Additions to property, plant and equipment| | 5,940 | | | 6,441 | | | 1,141 |
| | 964 | | | 1,026 | | | 1,692 | | | 37 | | | 200 | | | 897 | | | 18,338 |  
Investments in equity companies| | 4,893 | | | 21,502 | | | 368 | | | 1,154 |
| | 3,124 | | | 2,417 | | | -- | | | 1,177 | | | (113)| | | 34,522 |  
Total assets| | 66,695 | | | 139,764 | | | 31,729 | | | 41,836 | | | 17,342 |
| | 15,875 | | | 2,839 | | | 8,316 | | | 44,671 | | | 369,067 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
As of December 31, 2021| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Earnings (loss) after income tax| | 3,663 | | | 12,112 | | | 668 | | |
(1,014)| | | 3,697 | | | 3,292 | | | 1,452 | | | 1,807 | | | (2,636)| | |
23,040 |  
Earnings of equity companies included above| | 288 | | | 5,535 | | | 122 | | |
100 | | | (139)| | | 1,141 | | | -- | | | (36)| | | (354)| | | 6,657 |  
Sales and other operating revenue| | 8,883 | | | 12,914 | | | 78,500 | | |
130,406 | | | 11,995 | | | 16,633 | | | 4,858 | | | 12,473 | | | 30 | | |
276,692 |  
Intersegment revenue| | 16,692 | | | 33,405 | | | 16,735 | | | 25,097 | | |
5,993 | | | 4,082 | | | 2,193 | | | 749 | | | 227 | | | -- |  
Depreciation and depletion expense| | 6,831 | | | 9,918 | | | 700 | | | 1,036
| | | 505 | | | 450 | | | 97 | | | 195 | | | 875 | | | 20,607 |  
Interest revenue| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | -- | | | 33 | | | 33 |  
Interest expense| | 58 | | | 36 | | | 1 | | | 6 | | | -- | | | 1 | | | -- | |
| 1 | | | 844 | | | 947 |  
Income tax expense (benefit)| | 1,116 | | | 4,871 | | | 156 | | | (165)| | |
1,235 | | | 684 | | | 464 | | | 329 | | | (1,054)| | | 7,636 |  
Additions to property, plant and equipment| | 3,308 | | | 5,308 | | | 979 | |
| 874 | | | 538 | | | 712 | | | 28 | | | 136 | | | 658 | | | 12,541 |  
Investments in equity companies| | 4,999 | | | 18,544 | | | 353 | | | 972 | |
| 3,019 | | | 2,490 | | | -- | | | 1,185 | | | (337)| | | 31,225 |  
Total assets| | 67,294 | | | 141,978 | | | 26,932 | | | 37,698 | | | 16,695 |
| | 14,555 | | | 2,878 | | | 8,030 | | | 22,863 | | | 338,923 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
As of December 31, 2020| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Earnings (loss) after income tax| | (19,385)| | | (645)| | | (1,342)| | |
(1,230)| | | 1,196 | | | 1,061 | | | 571 | | | 630 | | | (3,296)| | |
(22,440)|  
  
Effect of asset impairments - noncash

| | (17,138)| | | (2,287)| | | (15)| | | (412)| | | (100)| | | (21)| | | -- |
| | (245)| | | (35)| | | (20,253)|  
Earnings of equity companies included above| | (559)| | | 2,101 | | | 134 | |
| (192)| | | (21)| | | 750 | | | -- | | | (97)| | | (384)| | | 1,732 |  
Sales and other operating revenue| | 5,876 | | | 8,673 | | | 46,401 | | |
86,966 | | | 6,391 | | | 11,243 | | | 3,993 | | | 8,993 | | | 38 | | | 178,574
|  
Intersegment revenue| | 8,508 | | | 19,642 | | | 9,847 | | | 13,417 | | |
4,313 | | | 2,191 | | | 1,620 | | | 361 | | | 221 | | | -- |  
Depreciation and depletion expense| | 28,627 | | | 12,723 | | | 693 | | |
1,508 | | | 607 | | | 461 | | | 101 | | | 397 | | | 892 | | | 46,009 |  
Interest revenue| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | -- | | | 49 | | | 49 |  
Interest expense| | 52 | | | 93 | | | 1 | | | 20 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | 1 | | | 991 | | | 1,158 |  
Income tax expense (benefit)| | (5,958)| | | 742 | | | (493)| | | 89 | | | 421
| | | 277 | | | 188 | | | 299 | | | (1,197)| | | (5,632)|  
Additions to property, plant and equipment| | 5,726 | | | 4,418 | | | 2,937 |
| | 1,446 | | | 1,158 | | | 546 | | | 109 | | | 331 | | | 671 | | | 17,342 |  
Investments in equity companies| | 4,792 | | | 18,135 | | | 352 | | | 952 | |
| 2,543 | | | 2,413 | | | -- | | | 1,028 | | | (443)| | | 29,772 |  
Total assets| | 71,287 | | | 144,730 | | | 23,192 | | | 33,566 | | | 15,529 |
| | 13,653 | | | 2,872 | | | 7,849 | | | 20,072 | | | 332,750 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Due to rounding, numbers presented may not add up precisely to the totals
indicated.  
  
112

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Revenue from Contracts with Customers

Sales and other operating revenue include both revenue within the scope of ASC
606 and outside the scope of ASC 606. Revenue outside the scope of ASC 606
primarily relates to physically settled commodity contracts accounted for as
derivatives. Contractual terms and type of customer are generally similar
between contracts within the scope of ASC 606 and those outside it.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Sales and other operating revenue

(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
Revenue from contracts with customers| 304,758 | | | 228,968 | | | 153,478 |  
Revenue outside the scope of ASC 606| 93,917 | | | 47,724 | | | 25,096 |  
Total| 398,675 | | | 276,692 | | | 178,574 |  
  
  

Geographic

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Sales and other operating revenue

(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
United States| 149,225 | | | 104,236 | | | 62,663 |  
Non-U.S.| 249,450 | | | 172,456 | | | 115,911 |  
Total| 398,675 | | | 276,692 | | | 178,574 |  
| | | | |  
  
Significant non-U.S. revenue sources include: (1)

| | | | |  
United Kingdom| 33,988 | | | 14,759 | | | 11,055 |  
Canada| 32,970 | | | 22,166 | | | 13,093 |  
Singapore| 19,029 | | | 15,031 | | | 9,442 |  
France| 17,727 | | | 13,236 | | | 8,676 |  
Italy| 11,496 | | | 10,056 | | | 7,091 |  
Australia| 11,316 | | | 7,646 | | | 5,839 |  
Belgium| 11,279 | | | 9,153 | | | 6,231 |  
| | | | |  
  
(1) Revenue is determined by primary country of operations. Excludes certain
sales and other operating revenues in Non-U.S. operations where attribution to
a specific country is not practicable.  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Long-lived assets

(millions of dollars)

| December 31,  
2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
United States| 90,051 | | | 90,412 | | | 94,732 |  
Non-U.S.| 114,641 | | | 126,140 | | | 132,821 |  
Total| 204,692 | | | 216,552 | | | 227,553 |  
| | | | |  
Significant non-U.S. long-lived assets include:| | | | |  
Canada| 31,106 | | | 34,907 | | | 36,232 |  
Singapore| 11,972 | | | 11,969 | | | 12,129 |  
Australia| 11,372 | | | 12,988 | | | 14,792 |  
Kazakhstan| 8,172 | | | 8,463 | | | 8,882 |  
Papua New Guinea| 7,338 | | | 7,534 | | | 7,803 |  
Guyana| 6,766 | | | 4,892 | | | 3,547 |  
United Arab Emirates| 5,448 | | | 5,392 | | | 5,381 |  
Nigeria| 4,090 | | | 5,235 | | | 6,345 |  
Brazil| 3,649 | | | 4,337 | | | 3,281 |  
Angola| 2,793 | | | 3,207 | | | 4,405 |  
Russia| -- | | | 4,055 | | | 4,616 |  
  
  

113

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

19\. Income and Other Taxes

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Income tax expense (benefit)

(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total| | U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total| | U.S.| Non-U.S.| Total  
|  |  |  | | | | | |  |  |  
Federal and non-U.S.|  |  |  | |  |  |  | |  |  |  
Current| 696 | | 15,071 | | 15,767 | | | 236 | | 6,948 | | 7,184 | | | 262 | |
2,908 | | 3,170 |  
Deferred - net| 4,122 | | (539)| | 3,583 | | | 870 | | (914)| | (44)| | |
(6,045)| | (2,007)| | (8,052)|  
U.S. tax on non-U.S. operations| 65 | | -- | | 65 | | | 26 | | -- | | 26 | | |
13 | | -- | | 13 |  
Total federal and non-U.S.| 4,883 | | 14,532 | | 19,415 | | | 1,132 | | 6,034
| | 7,166 | | | (5,770)| | 901 | | (4,869)|  
State| 761 | | -- | | 761 | | | 470 | | -- | | 470 | | | (763)| | -- | |
(763)|  
Total income tax expense (benefit) | 5,644 | | 14,532 | | 20,176 | | | 1,602 |
| 6,034 | | 7,636 | | | (6,533)| | 901 | | (5,632)|  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
All other taxes and duties| | | | | | | | | | |  
Other taxes and duties| 4,087 | | 23,832 | | 27,919 | | | 3,731 | | 26,508 | |
30,239 | | | 3,108 | | 23,014 | | 26,122 |  
Included in production and manufacturing expenses| 2,204 | | 862 | | 3,066 | |
| 1,589 | | 674 | | 2,263 | | | 1,148 | | 663 | | 1,811 |  
Included in SG&A expenses| 151 | | 319 | | 470 | | | 170 | | 283 | | 453 | | |
164 | | 328 | | 492 |  
Total other taxes and duties| 6,442 | | 25,013 | | 31,455 | | | 5,490 | |
27,465 | | 32,955 | | | 4,420 | | 24,005 | | 28,425 |  
Total| 12,086 | | 39,545 | | 51,631 | | | 7,092 | | 33,499 | | 40,591 | | |
(2,113)| | 24,906 | | 22,793 |  
  
The above provisions for deferred income taxes include net expenses of $30
million in 2022, and net benefits of $53 million in 2021, and $25 million in
2020 related to changes in tax laws and rates, and a benefit of $6.3 billion
in 2020 related to asset impairments.

  

Additional European Taxes on the Energy Sector. On October 6, 2022, European
Union ("EU") Member States adopted an EU Council Regulation which, along with
other measures, introduced a new tax described as an emergency intervention to
address high energy prices. This regulation imposed a mandatory tax on certain
companies active in the crude petroleum, coal, natural gas, and refinery
sectors. The regulation required Member States to levy a minimum 33 percent
tax on in-scope companies' 2022 and/or 2023 "surplus profits", defined in the
regulation as taxable profits exceeding 120 percent of the annual average
profits during the 2018-2021 period. EU Member States were required to
implement the tax, or an equivalent national measure, by December 31, 2022.
The enactment of these regulations resulted in an after-tax charge of
approximately $1.8 billion to the Corporation's fourth-quarter 2022 results,
mainly reflected in the line "Income tax expense (benefit)" on the
Consolidated Statement of Income.

114

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The reconciliation between income tax expense (credit) and a theoretical U.S.
tax computed by applying a rate of 21 percent for 2022, 2021, and 2020 is as
follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(millions of dollars)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
Income (loss) before income taxes|  | |  | |  
United States| 28,281 | | | 9,478 | | | (27,704)|  
Non-U.S.| 49,472 | | | 21,756 | | | (1,179)|  
Total| 77,753 | | | 31,234 | | | (28,883)|  
Theoretical tax| 16,328 | | | 6,559 | | | (6,065)|  
Effect of equity method of accounting| (2,407)| | | (1,398)| | | (364)|  
  
Non-U.S. taxes in excess of/(less than) theoretical U.S. tax (1)(2)

| 6,423 | | | 2,809 | | | 1,606 |  
  
State taxes, net of federal tax benefit (1)

| 601 | | | 371 | | | (603)|  
| | | | |  
  
Other

| (769)| | | (705)| | | (206)|  
Total income tax expense (credit)| 20,176 | | | 7,636 | | | (5,632)|  
| | | | |  
Effective tax rate calculation| | | | |  
Income tax expense (credit)| 20,176 | | | 7,636 | | | (5,632)|  
ExxonMobil share of equity company income taxes| 7,594 | | | 2,756 | | | 861 |  
Total income tax expense (credit)| 27,770 | | | 10,392 | | | (4,771)|  
Net income (loss) including noncontrolling interests| 57,577 | | | 23,598 | |
| (23,251)|  
Total income (loss) before taxes| 85,347 | | | 33,990 | | | (28,022)|  
| | | | |  
Effective income tax rate| 33%| | 31%| | 17%  
| | | | |  
  
(1) 2020 includes the impact of an increase in valuation allowance of $647
million in non-U.S. and $115 million in U.S. state jurisdictions.  
  
(2) 2022 includes the impact of the additional European taxes on the energy
sector of $1,825 million.  
  
  

  

115

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between the
amount of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes
and such amounts recognized for tax purposes.

Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are comprised of the following at December
31:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Tax effects of temporary differences for:

(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021  
| | |  
Property, plant and equipment| 25,607 | | | 27,888 |  
Other liabilities| 7,401 | | | 6,353 |  
Total deferred tax liabilities| 33,008 | | | 34,241 |  
| | |  
Pension and other postretirement benefits| (1,754)| | | (3,687)|  
Asset retirement obligations| (3,045)| | | (2,865)|  
Tax loss carryforwards| (4,862)| | | (6,914)|  
Other assets| (6,948)| | | (7,694)|  
Total deferred tax assets| (16,609)| | | (21,160)|  
| | |  
Asset valuation allowances| 2,650 | | | 2,634 |  
Net deferred tax liabilities| 19,049 | | | 15,715 |  
  
In 2022, asset valuation allowances of $2,650 million increased by $16 million
and included net provisions of $202 million and foreign currency effects of
$186 million.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Balance sheet classification

(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021  
| | |  
Other assets, including intangibles, net| (3,825)| | | (4,450)|  
Deferred income tax liabilities| 22,874 | | | 20,165 |  
Net deferred tax liabilities| 19,049 | | | 15,715 |  
  
The Corporation's undistributed earnings from subsidiary companies outside the
United States include amounts that have been retained to fund prior and future
capital project expenditures. Deferred income taxes have not been recorded for
potential future tax obligations, such as foreign withholding tax and state
tax, as these undistributed earnings are expected to be indefinitely
reinvested for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2022, it is not
practicable to estimate the unrecognized deferred tax liability. However,
unrecognized deferred taxes on remittance of these funds are not expected to
be material.

  

Unrecognized Tax Benefits. The Corporation is subject to income taxation in
many jurisdictions around the world. The benefits of uncertain tax positions
that the Corporation has taken or expects to take in its income tax returns
are recognized in the financial statements if management concludes that it is
more likely than not that the position will be sustained with the tax
authorities. For a position that is likely to be sustained, the benefit
recognized in the financial statements is measured at the largest amount that
is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized. Unrecognized tax benefits
reflect the difference between positions taken or expected to be taken on
income tax returns and the amounts recognized in the financial statements. The
following table summarizes the movement in unrecognized tax benefits:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Gross unrecognized tax benefits

(millions of dollars)

| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| | | | |  
Balance at January 1| 9,130 | | | 8,764 | | | 8,844 |  
Additions based on current year's tax positions| 539 | | | 358 | | | 253 |  
Additions for prior years' tax positions| 294 | | | 100 | | | 218 |  
Reductions for prior years' tax positions| (6,243)| | | (79)| | | (201)|  
Reductions due to lapse of the statute of limitations| (16)| | | (2)| | |
(237)|  
Settlements with tax authorities| (277)| | | (11)| | | (113)|  
Foreign exchange effects/other| (29)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Balance at December 31| 3,398 | | | 9,130 | | | 8,764 |  
  
  

116

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The gross unrecognized tax benefit balances are predominantly related to tax
positions that would reduce the Corporation's effective tax rate if the
positions are favorably resolved. Unfavorable resolution of these tax
positions generally would not increase the effective tax rate. The 2022, 2021,
and 2020 changes in unrecognized tax benefits did not have a material effect
on the Corporation's net income.

Resolution of these tax positions through negotiations with the relevant tax
authorities or through litigation will take many years to complete. It is
difficult to predict the timing of resolution for these tax positions since
the timing is not entirely within the control of the Corporation. In the
United States, the Corporation filed a refund suit for tax years 2006-2009
with respect to positions at issue for those years. These positions were
reflected in the 2021 unrecognized tax benefit table. The IRS asserted
penalties associated with several of those positions. The Corporation did not
recognize those penalties as an expense because it did not expect the
penalties to be sustained in litigation. On August 3, 2022, the Corporation
received an adverse ruling on the tax positions and a favorable ruling on the
related penalties from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
Neither the Corporation nor the government appealed the ruling. As a result of
this litigation, the tax positions that were at issue are not reflected in the
ending balance of the 2022 unrecognized tax benefits table. The Corporation
has various U.S. federal income tax positions at issue with the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) for tax years beginning in 2010. Unfavorable resolution
of these issues would not have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's
operations or financial condition.

It is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits
could increase by up to 20 percent or decrease by up to 10 percent in the next
12 months.

The following table summarizes the tax years that remain subject to
examination by major tax jurisdiction:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Country of Operation| Open Tax Years  
Abu Dhabi| 2021| --| 2022  
Angola| 2018| --| 2022  
Australia| 2010| --| 2022  
Belgium| 2017| --| 2022  
Canada| 2001| --| 2022  
Equatorial Guinea| 2009| --| 2022  
Indonesia| 2008| --| 2022  
Iraq| 2017| --| 2022  
Malaysia| 2018| --| 2022  
Nigeria| 2006| --| 2022  
Papua New Guinea| 2008| --| 2022  
| | |  
United Kingdom| 2015| --| 2022  
United States| 2010| --| 2022  
  
  

The Corporation classifies interest on income tax-related balances as interest
expense or interest income and classifies tax-related penalties as operating
expense.

For 2022 and 2021 the Corporation's net interest expense on income tax
reserves was $16 million and $0 million, respectively. For 2020, the
Corporation's net interest expense was a credit of $6 million. The related
interest payable balances were $63 million and $61 million at December 31,
2022 and 2021, respectively.

  

117

* * *

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

20\. Divestment Activities

The Corporation realized proceeds of approximately $5 billion and recognized
net after-tax earnings of approximately $0.4 billion from its divestment
activities in 2022. This included the sale of certain unproved assets in
Romania and unconventional assets in Canada and the United States, as well as
other smaller divestments.

In August 2022, the Corporation executed an agreement for the sale of Mobil
California Exploration and Producing Asset Company (United States), consisting
of ExxonMobil's interest in the Aera Energy joint venture, to Green Gate
Resources E, LLC. The transaction is anticipated to close in first quarter
2023.

In November 2022, the Corporation executed an agreement for the sale of the
Santa Ynez Unit and associated assets in California. The agreement is subject
to certain conditions precedent and government approvals and does not yet meet
held-for-sale criteria under ASC 360. Should the conditions precedent be met
and the potential transaction close, the Corporation would expect to recognize
a loss of up to $2 billion.

In February 2022, the Corporation signed an agreement with Seplat Energy
Offshore Limited for the sale of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited. The
agreement is subject to certain conditions precedent and government approvals.
In early July, a Nigerian court issued an order to halt transition activities
and enter into arbitration with the Nigerian National Petroleum Company. The
closing date and any loss on sale will depend on resolution of these matters.

  

  

  

  

118

* * *

  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES
(unaudited)

The results of operations for producing activities shown below do not include
earnings from other activities that ExxonMobil includes in the Upstream
function, such as oil and gas transportation operations, LNG liquefaction and
transportation operations, coal and power operations, technical service
agreements, gains and losses from derivative activity, other nonoperating
activities and adjustments for noncontrolling interests. These excluded
amounts for both consolidated and equity companies totaled $4,802 million in
2022, $(1,380) million in 2021 and $274 million in 2020. Oil sands mining
operations are included in the results of operations in accordance with
Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board
rules.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Results of Operations

(millions of dollars)

| United  
States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/  
Oceania| | Total  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
2022

| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Sales to third parties| 8,801 | | | 4,401 | | | 2,388 | | | 463 | | | 2,710 |
| | 6,222 | | | 24,985 |  
Transfers| 17,020 | | | 12,568 | | | 60 | | | 8,634 | | | 12,274 | | | 996 | |
| 51,552 |  
Revenue| 25,821 | | | 16,969 | | | 2,448 | | | 9,097 | | | 14,984 | | | 7,218
| | | 76,537 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Production costs excluding taxes| 3,965 | | | 5,519 | | | 464 | | | 1,965 | |
| 1,492 | | | 513 | | | 13,918 |  
Exploration expenses| 18 | | | 698 | | | 28 | | | 168 | | | 51 | | | 62 | | |
1,025 |  
Depreciation and depletion| 5,472 | | | 3,700 | | | 193 | | | 2,293 | | |
5,672 | | | 829 | | | 18,159 |  
Taxes other than income| 2,314 | | | 120 | | | 140 | | | 729 | | | 2,312 | | |
689 | | | 6,304 |  
Related income tax| 3,294 | | | 1,112 | | | 1,048 | | | 2,004 | | | 6,008 | |
| 1,549 | | | 15,015 |  
Results of producing activities for consolidated subsidiaries| 10,758 | | |
5,820 | | | 575 | | | 1,938 | | | (551)| | | 3,576 | | | 22,116 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Sales to third parties| 820 | | | -- | | | 2,791 | | | 10 | | | 20,750 | | |
-- | | | 24,371 |  
Transfers| 640 | | | -- | | | 51 | | | -- | | | 316 | | | -- | | | 1,007 |  
Revenue| 1,460 | | | -- | | | 2,842 | | | 10 | | | 21,066 | | | -- | | |
25,378 |  
Production costs excluding taxes| 667 | | | -- | | | 607 | | | 21 | | | 379 |
| | -- | | | 1,674 |  
Exploration expenses| -- | | | -- | | | 1 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 1 |  
Depreciation and depletion| 280 | | | -- | | | 48 | | | 1 | | | 717 | | | -- |
| | 1,046 |  
Taxes other than income| 37 | | | -- | | | 232 | | | -- | | | 6,857 | | | -- |
| | 7,126 |  
Related income tax| -- | | | -- | | | 1,413 | | | (2)| | | 4,559 | | | -- | |
| 5,970 |  
Results of producing activities for equity companies| 476 | | | -- | | | 541 |
| | (10)| | | 8,554 | | | -- | | | 9,561 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total results of operations| 11,234 | | | 5,820 | | | 1,116 | | | 1,928 | | |
8,003 | | | 3,576 | | | 31,677 |  
  
119

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Results of Operations

(millions of dollars)

| United  
States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/  
Oceania| | Total  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
2021

| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Sales to third parties| 5,797 | | | 2,480 | | | 1,628 | | | 253 | | | 2,110 |
| | 3,182 | | | 15,450 |  
Transfers| 10,938 | | | 8,492 | | | 412 | | | 6,087 | | | 8,829 | | | 812 | |
| 35,570 |  
Revenue| 16,735 | | | 10,972 | | | 2,040 | | | 6,340 | | | 10,939 | | | 3,994
| | | 51,020 |  
Production costs excluding taxes| 3,436 | | | 4,867 | | | 754 | | | 1,759 | |
| 1,471 | | | 481 | | | 12,768 |  
Exploration expenses| 19 | | | 464 | | | 26 | | | 359 | | | 146 | | | 40 | | |
1,054 |  
Depreciation and depletion| 6,185 | | | 2,690 | | | 408 | | | 2,799 | | |
1,965 | | | 1,002 | | | 15,049 |  
Taxes other than income| 1,367 | | | 113 | | | 11 | | | 490 | | | 1,258 | | |
423 | | | 3,662 |  
Related income tax| 1,276 | | | 55 | | | 235 | | | 311 | | | 3,858 | | | 610 |
| | 6,345 |  
Results of producing activities for consolidated subsidiaries| 4,452 | | |
2,783 | | | 606 | | | 622 | | | 2,241 | | | 1,438 | | | 12,142 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Sales to third parties| 620 | | | -- | | | 1,332 | | | -- | | | 12,239 | | |
-- | | | 14,191 |  
Transfers| 479 | | | -- | | | 33 | | | -- | | | 151 | | | -- | | | 663 |  
Revenue| 1,099 | | | -- | | | 1,365 | | | -- | | | 12,390 | | | -- | | |
14,854 |  
Production costs excluding taxes| 538 | | | -- | | | 1,065 | | | 11 | | | 413
| | | -- | | | 2,027 |  
Exploration expenses| -- | | | -- | | | 2 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 2 |  
Depreciation and depletion| 509 | | | -- | | | 194 | | | -- | | | 611 | | | --
| | | 1,314 |  
Taxes other than income| 33 | | | -- | | | 48 | | | -- | | | 3,749 | | | -- |
| | 3,830 |  
Related income tax| -- | | | -- | | | 13 | | | 3 | | | 2,652 | | | -- | | |
2,668 |  
Results of producing activities for equity companies| 19 | | | -- | | | 43 | |
| (14)| | | 4,965 | | | -- | | | 5,013 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total results of operations| 4,471 | | | 2,783 | | | 649 | | | 608 | | | 7,206
| | | 1,438 | | | 17,155 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
2020

| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Sales to third parties| 2,933 | | | 1,034 | | | 536 | | | 262 | | | 1,632 | |
| 1,983 | | | 8,380 |  
Transfers| 4,943 | | | 3,938 | | | 362 | | | 4,603 | | | 5,584 | | | 509 | | |
19,939 |  
Revenue| 7,876 | | | 4,972 | | | 898 | | | 4,865 | | | 7,216 | | | 2,492 | | |
28,319 |  
Production costs excluding taxes| 3,877 | | | 3,928 | | | 786 | | | 1,911 | |
| 1,471 | | | 483 | | | 12,456 |  
Exploration expenses| 51 | | | 573 | | | 33 | | | 371 | | | 112 | | | 145 | |
| 1,285 |  
Depreciation and depletion| 27,489 | | | 5,118 | | | 828 | | | 2,788 | | |
2,171 | | | 733 | | | 39,127 |  
Taxes other than income| 615 | | | 106 | | | 32 | | | 390 | | | 692 | | | 152
| | | 1,987 |  
Related income tax| (5,650)| | | (944)| | | (343)| | | (258)| | | 2,130 | | |
241 | | | (4,824)|  
Results of producing activities for consolidated subsidiaries| (18,506)| | |
(3,809)| | | (438)| | | (337)| | | 640 | | | 738 | | | (21,712)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Sales to third parties| 410 | | | -- | | | 513 | | | -- | | | 6,289 | | | -- |
| | 7,212 |  
Transfers| 308 | | | -- | | | 12 | | | -- | | | 60 | | | -- | | | 380 |  
Revenue| 718 | | | -- | | | 525 | | | -- | | | 6,349 | | | -- | | | 7,592 |  
Production costs excluding taxes| 500 | | | -- | | | 674 | | | 6 | | | 421 | |
| -- | | | 1,601 |  
Exploration expenses| -- | | | -- | | | 2 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 2 |  
Depreciation and depletion| 605 | | | -- | | | 224 | | | -- | | | 543 | | | --
| | | 1,372 |  
Taxes other than income| 34 | | | -- | | | 22 | | | -- | | | 2,274 | | | -- |
| | 2,330 |  
Related income tax| -- | | | -- | | | (246)| | | (1)| | | 1,126 | | | -- | | |
879 |  
Results of producing activities for equity companies| (421)| | | -- | | |
(151)| | | (5)| | | 1,985 | | | -- | | | 1,408 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total results of operations| (18,927)| | | (3,809)| | | (589)| | | (342)| | |
2,625 | | | 738 | | | (20,304)|  
  
120

* * *

  

Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Costs

The amounts shown for net capitalized costs of consolidated subsidiaries are
$10,785 million less at year-end 2022 and $12,005 million less at year-end
2021 than the amounts reported as investments in property, plant and equipment
for the Upstream in Note 9. This is due to the exclusion from capitalized
costs of certain transportation and research assets and assets relating to LNG
operations. Assets related to oil sands and oil shale mining operations are
included in the capitalized costs in accordance with Financial Accounting
Standards Board rules.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Capitalized Costs

(millions of dollars)

|  | | United  
States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/  
Oceania| | Total  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
As of December 31, 2022

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Property (acreage) costs| - Proved| | 15,547 | | | 3,427 | | | 9 | | | 1,510 |
| | 3,023 | | | 695 | | | 24,211 |  
| - Unproved| | 13,797 | | | 3,011 | | | 37 | | | 119 | | | 5 | | | 2,659 | |
| 19,628 |  
Total property costs|  | | 29,344 | | | 6,438 | | | 46 | | | 1,629 | | | 3,028
| | | 3,354 | | | 43,839 |  
Producing assets|  | | 96,209 | | | 49,923 | | | 12,156 | | | 53,164 | | |
45,405 | | | 14,296 | | | 271,153 |  
Incomplete construction|  | | 4,169 | | | 7,774 | | | 172 | | | 1,404 | | |
3,043 | | | 2,276 | | | 18,838 |  
Total capitalized costs|  | | 129,722 | | | 64,135 | | | 12,374 | | | 56,197 |
| | 51,476 | | | 19,926 | | | 333,830 |  
Accumulated depreciation and depletion| | 72,686 | | | 25,852 | | | 11,752 | |
| 48,606 | | | 32,025 | | | 9,548 | | | 200,469 |  
Net capitalized costs for consolidated subsidiaries| | 57,036 | | | 38,283 | |
| 622 | | | 7,591 | | | 19,451 | | | 10,378 | | | 133,361 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Property (acreage) costs| - Proved| | 99 | | | -- | | | 3 | | | 309 | | | -- |
| | -- | | | 411 |  
| - Unproved| | 2 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 3,111 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 3,113
|  
Total property costs|  | | 101 | | | -- | | | 3 | | | 3,420 | | | -- | | | --
| | | 3,524 |  
Producing assets|  | | 6,882 | | | -- | | | 5,243 | | | 281 | | | 10,177 | | |
-- | | | 22,583 |  
Incomplete construction|  | | 160 | | | -- | | | 35 | | | 550 | | | 11,709 | |
| -- | | | 12,454 |  
Total capitalized costs|  | | 7,143 | | | -- | | | 5,281 | | | 4,251 | | |
21,886 | | | -- | | | 38,561 |  
Accumulated depreciation and depletion| | 4,512 | | | -- | | | 4,934 | | | --
| | | 7,171 | | | -- | | | 16,617 |  
Net capitalized costs for equity companies| | 2,631 | | | -- | | | 347 | | |
4,251 | | | 14,715 | | | -- | | | 21,944 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
As of December 31, 2021

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Property (acreage) costs| - Proved| | 18,353 | | | 3,844 | | | 10 | | | 1,422
| | | 2,994 | | | 730 | | | 27,353 |  
| - Unproved| | 21,146 | | | 6,231 | | | 37 | | | 119 | | | 5 | | | 2,675 | |
| 30,213 |  
Total property costs|  | | 39,499 | | | 10,075 | | | 47 | | | 1,541 | | |
2,999 | | | 3,405 | | | 57,566 |  
Producing assets|  | | 101,211 | | | 52,092 | | | 14,420 | | | 56,168 | | |
44,228 | | | 14,944 | | | 283,063 |  
Incomplete construction|  | | 4,125 | | | 7,047 | | | 889 | | | 1,428 | | |
2,888 | | | 2,044 | | | 18,421 |  
Total capitalized costs| | | 144,835 | | | 69,214 | | | 15,356 | | | 59,137 |
| | 50,115 | | | 20,393 | | | 359,050 |  
Accumulated depreciation and depletion| | 86,830 | | | 28,428 | | | 13,790 | |
| 49,312 | | | 26,519 | | | 9,225 | | | 214,104 |  
Net capitalized costs for consolidated subsidiaries| | 58,005 | | | 40,786 | |
| 1,566 | | | 9,825 | | | 23,596 | | | 11,168 | | | 144,946 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Property (acreage) costs| - Proved| | 98 | | | -- | | | 4 | | | 309 | | | -- |
| | -- | | | 411 |  
| - Unproved| | 4 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 3,111 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 3,115
|  
Total property costs|  | | 102 | | | -- | | | 4 | | | 3,420 | | | -- | | | --
| | | 3,526 |  
Producing assets|  | | 6,946 | | | -- | | | 5,487 | | | -- | | | 8,676 | | |
-- | | | 21,109 |  
Incomplete construction|  | | 103 | | | -- | | | 23 | | | 809 | | | 11,716 | |
| -- | | | 12,651 |  
Total capitalized costs| | | 7,151 | | | -- | | | 5,514 | | | 4,229 | | |
20,392 | | | -- | | | 37,286 |  
Accumulated depreciation and depletion| | 4,304 | | | -- | | | 5,162 | | | --
| | | 6,590 | | | -- | | | 16,056 |  
Net capitalized costs for equity companies| | 2,847 | | | -- | | | 352 | | |
4,229 | | | 13,802 | | | -- | | | 21,230 |  
  
  

  

121

* * *

  

Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Costs (continued)

The amounts reported as costs incurred include both capitalized costs and
costs charged to expense during the year. Costs incurred also include new
asset retirement obligations established in the current year, as well as
increases or decreases to the asset retirement obligation resulting from
changes in cost estimates or abandonment date. Total consolidated costs
incurred in 2022 were $14,513 million, up $4,636 million from 2021, due
primarily to higher development costs. In 2021, costs were $9,877 million,
down $1,377 million from 2020, due primarily to lower development costs,
partially offset by higher acquisition costs of unproved properties. Total
equity company costs incurred in 2022 were $1,769 million, up $318 million
from 2021, due to higher development costs.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Costs Incurred in Property Acquisitions,

Exploration and Development Activities

(millions of dollars)

| | United  
States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/  
Oceania| | Total  
|  | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
During 2022

|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Property acquisition costs| - Proved| | 10 | | | 11 | | | -- | | | 151 | | |
32 | | | -- | | | 204 |  
| - Unproved| | 19 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 7 | | | 26 |  
Exploration costs|  | | 27 | | | 736 | | | 71 | | | 145 | | | 38 | | | 62 | |
| 1,079 |  
Development costs|  | | 5,821 | | | 4,759 | | | 161 | | | 533 | | | 1,490 | |
| 440 | | | 13,204 |  
Total costs incurred for consolidated subsidiaries| | 5,877 | | | 5,506 | | |
232 | | | 829 | | | 1,560 | | | 509 | | | 14,513 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Property acquisition costs| - Proved| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- |  
| - Unproved| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Exploration costs|  | | -- | | | -- | | | 1 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 1
|  
Development costs|  | | 95 | | | -- | | | 13 | | | 22 | | | 1,638 | | | -- | |
| 1,768 |  
Total costs incurred for equity companies| | 95 | | | -- | | | 14 | | | 22 | |
| 1,638 | | | -- | | | 1,769 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
During 2021

|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Property acquisition costs| - Proved| | 37 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 90 | | | 15
| | | -- | | | 142 |  
| - Unproved| | 78 | | | 575 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 35 | | | 688 |  
Exploration costs|  | | 19 | | | 903 | | | 46 | | | 185 | | | 47 | | | 40 | |
| 1,240 |  
Development costs|  | | 3,352 | | | 2,619 | | | 207 | | | 389 | | | 805 | | |
435 | | | 7,807 |  
Total costs incurred for consolidated subsidiaries| | 3,486 | | | 4,097 | | |
253 | | | 664 | | | 867 | | | 510 | | | 9,877 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Property acquisition costs| - Proved| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- |  
| - Unproved| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Exploration costs|  | | -- | | | -- | | | 1 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 1
|  
Development costs|  | | 8 | | | -- | | | 20 | | | 88 | | | 1,334 | | | -- | |
| 1,450 |  
Total costs incurred for equity companies| | 8 | | | -- | | | 21 | | | 88 | |
| 1,334 | | | -- | | | 1,451 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
During 2020

|  | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Property acquisition costs| - Proved| | 1 | | | 30 | | | -- | | | 344 | | | 7
| | | -- | | | 382 |  
| - Unproved| | 80 | | | 3 | | | -- | | | 47 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 130 |  
Exploration costs|  | | 60 | | | 702 | | | 40 | | | 232 | | | 110 | | | 83 | |
| 1,227 |  
Development costs|  | | 5,675 | | | 2,059 | | | 316 | | | (239)| | | 974 | | |
730 | | | 9,515 |  
Total costs incurred for consolidated subsidiaries| | 5,816 | | | 2,794 | | |
356 | | | 384 | | | 1,091 | | | 813 | | | 11,254 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Property acquisition costs| - Proved| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- |  
| - Unproved| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Exploration costs|  | | -- | | | -- | | | 2 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 2
|  
Development costs|  | | 135 | | | -- | | | 20 | | | 71 | | | 1,784 | | | -- |
| | 2,010 |  
Total costs incurred for equity companies| | 135 | | | -- | | | 22 | | | 71 |
| | 1,784 | | | -- | | | 2,012 |  
  
  

122

* * *

  

Oil and Gas Reserves

The following information describes changes during the years and balances of
proved oil and gas reserves at year-end 2020, 2021, and 2022.

The definitions used are in accordance with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's Rule 4-10 (a) of Regulation S-X.

Proved oil and natural gas reserves are those quantities of oil and natural
gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated
with reasonable certainty to be economically producible - from a given date
forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions,
operating methods and government regulations - prior to the time at which
contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates
that renewal is reasonably certain. In some cases, substantial new investments
in additional wells and related facilities will be required to recover these
proved reserves.

In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) rules, the
Corporation's year-end reserves volumes as well as the reserves change
categories shown in the following tables are required to be calculated on the
basis of average prices during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of
the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic
average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period.
These reserves quantities are also used in calculating unit-of-production
depreciation rates and in calculating the standardized measure of discounted
net cash flows.

Revisions can include upward or downward changes in previously estimated
volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to the evaluation or re-
evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data,
(2) new geologic, reservoir or production data or (3) changes in the average
of first-of-month oil and natural gas prices and/or costs that are used in the
estimation of reserves. Revisions can also result from significant changes in
either development strategy or production equipment/facility capacity.

Proved reserves include 100 percent of each majority-owned affiliate's
participation in proved reserves and ExxonMobil's ownership percentage of the
proved reserves of equity companies, but exclude royalties and quantities due
others. Natural gas reserves exclude the gaseous equivalent of liquids
expected to be removed from the natural gas on leases, at field facilities and
at gas processing plants. These liquids are included in net proved reserves of
crude oil and natural gas liquids.

In the proved reserves tables, consolidated reserves and equity company
reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation does not view
equity company reserves any differently than those from consolidated
companies.

Reserves reported under production sharing and other nonconcessionary
agreements are based on the economic interest as defined by the specific
fiscal terms in the agreement. The production and reserves reported for these
types of arrangements typically vary inversely with oil and natural gas price
changes. As oil and natural gas prices increase, the cash flow and value
received by the company increase; however, the production volumes and reserves
required to achieve this value will typically be lower because of the higher
prices. When prices decrease, the opposite effect generally occurs. The
percentage of total proved reserves (consolidated subsidiaries plus equity
companies) at year-end 2022 that were associated with production sharing
contract arrangements was 12 percent on an oil-equivalent basis (natural gas
is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six billion cubic feet per one
million barrels).

Net proved developed reserves are those volumes that are expected to be
recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods
or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to
the cost of a new well. Net proved undeveloped reserves are those volumes that
are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from
existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for
recompletion.

Crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas production quantities shown
are the net volumes withdrawn from ExxonMobil's oil and natural gas reserves.
The natural gas quantities differ from the quantities of natural gas delivered
for sale by the producing function as reported in the Upstream Operational
Results due to volumes consumed or flared and inventory changes.

The changes between 2022 year-end proved reserves and 2021 year-end proved
reserves include worldwide production of 1.4 billion oil-equivalent barrels
(GOEB), asset sales of 0.4 GOEB primarily in the United States, and other
downward revisions of 1.2 GOEB including the impact of the Russia
expropriation (0.2 GOEB). Additions to proved reserves include 0.7 GOEB from
purchases in Asia and 1.4 GOEB from extensions and discoveries primarily in
the United States and Guyana.

The changes between 2021 year-end proved reserves and 2020 year-end proved
reserves reflect upward revisions of 2.4 billion barrels of bitumen at Kearl
and 0.5 billion barrels of bitumen at Cold Lake, primarily as a result of
improved prices. In addition, extensions and discoveries of approximately 1.3
GOEB occurred primarily in the United States (0.9 GOEB), Brazil (0.2 GOEB) and
Guyana (0.1 GOEB). Worldwide production in 2021 was 1.4 GOEB.

The downward revisions in 2020, primarily as a result of low prices during
2020, include 3.1 billion barrels of bitumen at Kearl, 0.6 billion barrels of
bitumen at Cold Lake, and 0.5 GOEB in the United States. In addition, the
Corporation's near-term reduction in capital expenditures resulted in a net
reduction to estimates of proved reserves of approximately 1.5 GOEB, mainly
related to unconventional drilling in the United States.

  

  

123

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Crude Oil, Natural Gas Liquids, Bitumen and Synthetic Oil Proved Reserves| |
| |  | |  
| Crude Oil| | Natural Gas  
Liquids| | Bitumen| | Synthetic Oil| | Total  
(millions of barrels)| United  
States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| Australia/  
Oceania| Total| | Worldwide| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas|  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Net proved developed and undeveloped reserves of consolidated subsidiaries|  |
|  | |  | |  | |  |  |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
January 1, 2020

| 3,088 | | | 557 | | | 39 | | | 447 | | | 3,335 | | 94 | | 7,560 | | | 1,275
| | | 3,858 | | | 415 | | | 13,108 |  
Revisions| (1,139)| | | (14)| | | (9)| | | 19 | | | (20)| | (10)| | (1,173)| |
| (209)| | | (3,653)| | | (79)| | | (5,114)|  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Purchases| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Sales| (1)| | | (2)| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | (3)| | | (3)| | | --
| | | -- | | | (6)|  
Extensions/discoveries| 187 | | | 1 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | 188
| | | 65 | | | 1 | | | 133 | | | 387 |  
Production| (176)| | | (45)| | | (8)| | | (110)| | | (165)| | (10)| | (514)| |
| (74)| | | (125)| | | (25)| | | (738)|  
  
December 31, 2020

| 1,959 | | | 497 | | | 22 | | | 356 | | | 3,150 | | 74 | | 6,058 | | | 1,054
| | | 81 | | | 444 | | | 7,637 |  
Attributable to noncontrolling interests| | | 7 | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | |
25 | | | 135 | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proportional interest in proved reserves of equity companies| | | | | | | | |
| | | | | |  | |  | |  
  
January 1, 2020

| 251 | | | -- | | | 14 | | | 6 | | | 897 | | -- | | 1,168 | | | 322 | | | --
| | | -- | | | 1,490 |  
Revisions| (102)| | | -- | | | (4)| | | -- | | | 4 | | -- | | (102)| | | (22)|
| | -- | | | -- | | | (124)|  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Purchases| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Sales| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- |  
Extensions/discoveries| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- |
| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Production| (18)| | | -- | | | (1)| | | -- | | | (76)| | -- | | (95)| | |
(23)| | | -- | | | -- | | | (118)|  
  
December 31, 2020

| 131 | | | -- | | | 9 | | | 6 | | | 825 | | -- | | 971 | | | 277 | | | -- | |
| -- | | | 1,248 |  
  
Total liquids proved reserves at December 31, 2020

| 2,090 | | | 497 | | | 31 | | | 362 | | | 3,975 | | 74 | | 7,029 | | | 1,331
| | | 81 | | | 444 | | | 8,885 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Net proved developed and undeveloped reserves of consolidated subsidiaries|  |
|  | |  | |  | |  |  |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
January 1, 2021

| 1,959 | | | 497 | | | 22 | | | 356 | | | 3,150 | | 74 | | 6,058 | | | 1,054
| | | 81 | | | 444 | | | 7,637 |  
Revisions| 47 | | | (2)| | | 15 | | | 67 | | | 36 | | 10 | | 173 | | | 4 | | |
2,944 | | | 17 | | | 3,138 |  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | |
-- | | | 2 | | | -- | | | 2 |  
Purchases| 5 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | 5 | | | 1 | | | --
| | | -- | | | 6 |  
Sales| (27)| | | (8)| | | (28)| | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | (63)| | | (20)| | |
-- | | | -- | | | (83)|  
Extensions/discoveries| 499 | | | 329 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | |
828 | | | 183 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 1,011 |  
Production| (176)| | | (47)| | | (6)| | | (88)| | | (149)| | (10)| | (476)| |
| (86)| | | (133)| | | (23)| | | (718)|  
  
December 31, 2021

| 2,307 | | | 769 | | | 3 | | | 335 | | | 3,037 | | 74 | | 6,525 | | | 1,136 |
| | 2,894 | | | 438 | | | 10,993 |  
Attributable to noncontrolling interests| | | 9 | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | |
674 | | | 133 | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proportional interest in proved reserves of equity companies| | | | | | | | |
| | | | | |  | |  | |  
  
January 1, 2021

| 131 | | | -- | | | 9 | | | 6 | | | 825 | | -- | | 971 | | | 277 | | | -- | |
| -- | | | 1,248 |  
Revisions| 38 | | | -- | | | 2 | | | (1)| | | (8)| | -- | | 31 | | | 15 | | |
-- | | | -- | | | 46 |  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Purchases| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Sales| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- |  
Extensions/discoveries| 2 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | 2 | |
| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 2 |  
Production| (16)| | | -- | | | (1)| | | -- | | | (76)| | -- | | (93)| | |
(22)| | | -- | | | -- | | | (115)|  
  
December 31, 2021

| 155 | | | -- | | | 10 | | | 5 | | | 741 | | -- | | 911 | | | 270 | | | -- |
| | -- | | | 1,181 |  
  
Total liquids proved reserves at December 31, 2021

| 2,462 | | | 769 | | | 13 | | | 340 | | | 3,778 | | 74 | | 7,436 | | | 1,406
| | | 2,894 | | | 438 | | | 12,174 |  
  
124

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Crude Oil, Natural Gas Liquids, Bitumen and Synthetic Oil Proved Reserves
(continued)| |  | |  | |  
| Crude Oil| | Natural Gas  
Liquids| | Bitumen| | Synthetic Oil| | Total  
(millions of barrels)| United  
States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| Australia/  
Oceania| Total| | Worldwide| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas|  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Net proved developed and undeveloped reserves of consolidated subsidiaries|  |
|  | |  | |  | |  |  |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
January 1, 2022

| 2,307 | | | 769 | | | 3 | | | 335 | | | 3,037 | | 74 | | 6,525 | | | 1,136 |
| | 2,894 | | | 438 | | | 10,993 |  
  
Revisions (1)

| (375)| | | 52 | | | 3 | | | 38 | | | (95)| | 2 | | (375)| | | (85)| | |
(422)| | | (62)| | | (944)|  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Purchases| 1 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | 1 | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | 1 |  
Sales| (3)| | | (12)| | | -- | | | (17)| | | -- | | -- | | (32)| | | (20)| | |
-- | | | -- | | | (52)|  
Extensions/discoveries| 465 | | | 208 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | |
673 | | | 235 | | | 67 | | | -- | | | 975 |  
Production| (191)| | | (72)| | | (1)| | | (85)| | | (148)| | (10)| | (507)| |
| (90)| | | (119)| | | (23)| | | (739)|  
  
December 31, 2022

| 2,204 | | | 945 | | | 5 | | | 271 | | | 2,794 | | 66 | | 6,285 | | | 1,176 |
| | 2,420 | | | 353 | | | 10,234 |  
Attributable to noncontrolling interests| | | 14 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 554
| | | 107 | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proportional interest in proved reserves of equity companies|  | |  | |  | |
| |  |  |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
January 1, 2022

| 155 | | | -- | | | 10 | | | 5 | | | 741 | | -- | | 911 | | | 270 | | | -- |
| | -- | | | 1,181 |  
Revisions| (21)| | | -- | | | (7)| | | -- | | | (17)| | -- | | (45)| | | (10)|
| | -- | | | -- | | | (55)|  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Purchases| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 110 | | -- | | 110 | | | 117 |
| | -- | | | -- | | | 227 |  
Sales| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | -- | | | -- |  
Extensions/discoveries| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- |
| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Production| (15)| | | -- | | | (1)| | | -- | | | (78)| | -- | | (94)| | |
(22)| | | -- | | | -- | | | (116)|  
  
December 31, 2022

| 119 | | | -- | | | 2 | | | 5 | | | 756 | | -- | | 882 | | | 355 | | | -- | |
| -- | | | 1,237 |  
  
Total liquids proved reserves at December 31, 2022

| 2,323 | | | 945 | | | 7 | | | 276 | | | 3,550 | | 66 | | 7,167 | | | 1,531 |
| | 2,420 | | | 353 | | | 11,471 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Includes (118) million barrels in Russia which were expropriated. See Note
2: Russia.  
  
  

125

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Crude Oil, Natural Gas Liquids, Bitumen and Synthetic Oil Proved Reserves
(continued)|  |  | |  | |  
| Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids|  | Bitumen| | Synthetic Oil| | Total  
(millions of barrels)| United  
States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/  
Oceania| | Total|  | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas|  
|  
  
As of December 31, 2020

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proved developed reserves|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  |  |  | |  | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 1,473 | | | 293 | | | 13 | | | 345 | | | 2,299 | |
| 67 | | | 4,490 | | | 76 | | | 311 | | | 4,877 |  
Equity companies| 111 | | | -- | | | 8 | | | -- | | | 646 | | | -- | | | 765 |
| | -- | | | -- | | | 765 |  
Proved undeveloped reserves| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 1,342 | | | 209 | | | 16 | | | 42 | | | 975 | | |
38 | | | 2,622 | | | 5 | | | 133 | | | 2,760 |  
Equity companies| 24 | | | -- | | | 1 | | | 6 | | | 452 | | | -- | | | 483 | |
| -- | | | -- | | | 483 |  
  
Total liquids proved reserves at December 31, 2020

| 2,950 | | | 502 | | | 38 | | | 393 | | | 4,372 | | | 105 | | | 8,360 | | |
81 | | | 444 | | | 8,885 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
As of December 31, 2021

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proved developed reserves| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 1,663 | | | 268 | | | 3 | | | 330 | | | 2,154 | | |
63 | | | 4,481 | | | 2,635 | | | 326 | | | 7,442 |  
Equity companies| 133 | | | -- | | | 10 | | | -- | | | 474 | | | -- | | | 617
| | | -- | | | -- | | | 617 |  
Proved undeveloped reserves| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 1,621 | | | 508 | | | -- | | | 31 | | | 988 | | |
32 | | | 3,180 | | | 259 | | | 112 | | | 3,551 |  
Equity companies| 28 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 5 | | | 531 | | | -- | | | 564 |
| | -- | | | -- | | | 564 |  
  
Total liquids proved reserves at December 31, 2021

| 3,445 | | | 776 | | | 13 | | | 366 | | | 4,147 | | | 95 | | | 8,842 | | |
2,894 | | | 438 | | | 12,174 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
As of December 31, 2022

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proved developed reserves| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 1,688 | | | 378 | | | 5 | | | 259 | | | 2,067 | | |
50 | | | 4,447 | | | 2,288 | | | 248 | | | 6,983 |  
Equity companies| 126 | | | -- | | | 2 | | | 5 | | | 360 | | | -- | | | 493 |
| | -- | | | -- | | | 493 |  
Proved undeveloped reserves| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 1,568 | | | 568 | | | -- | | | 35 | | | 813 | | |
30 | | | 3,014 | | | 132 | | | 105 | | | 3,251 |  
Equity companies| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 744 | | | -- | | | 744 |
| | -- | | | -- | | | 744 |  
  
Total liquids proved reserves at December 31, 2022

| 3,382 | | | 946 | | | 7 | | | 299 | | | 3,984 | | | 80 | | | 8,698 | |

(1)

| 2,420 | | | 353 | | | 11,471 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) See previous pages for natural gas liquids proved reserves attributable to
consolidated subsidiaries and equity companies. For additional information on
natural gas liquids proved reserves see Item 2. Properties in ExxonMobil's
2022 Form 10-K.  
  
126

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Natural Gas and Oil-Equivalent Proved Reserves| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
|

Natural Gas

(billions of cubic feet)

| |

Oil-Equivalent

Total

All Products (1)

  

(millions of oil-equivalent barrels)  
  
| United  
States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/  
Oceania| | Total|  
| | |  
Net proved developed and undeveloped

reserves of consolidated subsidiaries

|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  |  
  
January 1, 2020

| 19,026 | | | 1,466 | | | 621 | | | 377 | | | 4,433 | | | 7,001 | | | 32,924
| | | 18,596 |  
Revisions| (4,904)| | | (753)| | | (4)| | | (23)| | | 245 | | | (405)| | |
(5,844)| | | (6,088)|  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | -- |  
Purchases| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Sales| (35)| | | (30)| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (65)| | | (17)|  
Extensions/discoveries| 433 | | | 1 | | | 1 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
435 | | | 459 |  
Production| (1,081)| | | (123)| | | (177)| | | (34)| | | (369)| | | (462)| | |
(2,246)| | | (1,113)|  
  
December 31, 2020

| 13,439 | | | 561 | | | 441 | | | 320 | | | 4,309 | | | 6,134 | | | 25,204 |
| | 11,837 |  
Attributable to noncontrolling interests| | | 84 | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proportional interest in proved reserves

of equity companies

|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
January 1, 2020

| 213 | | | -- | | | 581 | | | 908 | | | 12,454 | | | -- | | | 14,156 | | |
3,849 |  
Revisions| (99)| | | -- | | | (95)| | | 9 | | | (106)| | | -- | | | (291)| | |
(172)|  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | -- |  
Purchases| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Sales| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Extensions/discoveries| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- |  
Production| (12)| | | -- | | | (126)| | | -- | | | (971)| | | -- | | |
(1,109)| | | (303)|  
  
December 31, 2020

| 102 | | | -- | | | 360 | | | 917 | | | 11,377 | | | -- | | | 12,756 | | |
3,374 |  
  
Total proved reserves at December 31, 2020

| 13,541 | | | 561 | | | 801 | | | 1,237 | | | 15,686 | | | 6,134 | | | 37,960
| | | 15,211 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Net proved developed and undeveloped

reserves of consolidated subsidiaries

|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
January 1, 2021

| 13,439 | | | 561 | | | 441 | | | 320 | | | 4,309 | | | 6,134 | | | 25,204 |
| | 11,837 |  
Revisions| 1,432 | | | 305 | | | 210 | | | 39 | | | (276)| | | 712 | | | 2,422
| | | 3,542 |  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | 2 |  
Purchases| 3 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 3 | | | 6 |  
Sales| (164)| | | (18)| | | (120)| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (302)| | |
(134)|  
Extensions/discoveries| 1,381 | | | 163 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | 1,544 | | | 1,269 |  
Production| (1,103)| | | (92)| | | (148)| | | (42)| | | (340)| | | (483)| | |
(2,208)| | | (1,086)|  
  
December 31, 2021

| 14,988 | | | 919 | | | 383 | | | 317 | | | 3,693 | | | 6,363 | | | 26,663 |
| | 15,436 |  
Attributable to noncontrolling interests| | | 124 | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proportional interest in proved reserves

of equity companies

|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
January 1, 2021

| 102 | | | -- | | | 360 | | | 917 | | | 11,377 | | | -- | | | 12,756 | | |
3,374 |  
Revisions| 44 | | | -- | | | 206 | | | (111)| | | (236)| | | -- | | | (97)| |
| 30 |  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | -- |  
Purchases| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Sales| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Extensions/discoveries| 5 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 5
| | | 3 |  
Production| (11)| | | -- | | | (158)| | | -- | | | (983)| | | -- | | |
(1,152)| | | (307)|  
  
December 31, 2021

| 140 | | | -- | | | 408 | | | 806 | | | 10,158 | | | -- | | | 11,512 | | |
3,100 |  
  
Total proved reserves at December 31, 2021

| 15,128 | | | 919 | | | 791 | | | 1,123 | | | 13,851 | | | 6,363 | | | 38,175
| | | 18,536 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Natural gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six billion cubic
feet per one million barrels.  
  
127

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Natural Gas and Oil-Equivalent Proved Reserves (continued)| |  | |  | |  | |
| |  
|

Natural Gas

(billions of cubic feet)

| |

Oil-Equivalent

Total

All Products (1)

  

(millions of oil-equivalent barrels)  
  
| United States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/  
Oceania| | Total|  
| | |  
Net proved developed and undeveloped

reserves of consolidated subsidiaries

|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
January 1, 2022

| 14,988 | | | 919 | | | 383 | | | 317 | | | 3,693 | | | 6,363 | | | 26,663 |
| | 15,436 |  
  
Revisions (2)

| (990)| | | (38)| | | 149 | | | 49 | | | (307)| | | 187 | | | (950)| | |
(1,102)|  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | -- |  
Purchases| 2 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 2 | | | 1 |  
Sales| (1,551)| | | (272)| | | -- | | | (1)| | | -- | | | -- | | | (1,824)| |
| (356)|  
Extensions/discoveries| 2,232 | | | 175 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | 2,407 | | | 1,376 |  
Production| (1,036)| | | (76)| | | (119)| | | (53)| | | (325)| | | (542)| | |
(2,151)| | | (1,097)|  
  
December 31, 2022

| 13,645 | | | 708 | | | 413 | | | 312 | | | 3,061 | | | 6,008 | | | 24,147 |
| | 14,258 |  
Attributable to noncontrolling interests| | | 77 | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proportional interest in proved reserves

of equity companies

|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
  
January 1, 2022

| 140 | | | -- | | | 408 | | | 806 | | | 10,158 | | | -- | | | 11,512 | | |
3,100 |  
Revisions| (3)| | | -- | | | 104 | | | (132)| | | 29 | | | -- | | | (2)| | |
(55)|  
Improved recovery| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | -- |  
Purchases| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 3,101 | | | -- | | | 3,101 | |
| 744 |  
Sales| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Extensions/discoveries| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- |  
Production| (10)| | | -- | | | (132)| | | (11)| | | (979)| | | -- | | |
(1,132)| | | (305)|  
  
December 31, 2022

| 127 | | | -- | | | 380 | | | 663 | | | 12,309 | | | -- | | | 13,479 | | |
3,484 |  
  
Total proved reserves at December 31, 2022

| 13,772 | | | 708 | | | 793 | | | 975 | | | 15,370 | | | 6,008 | | | 37,626 |
| | 17,742 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Natural gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six billion cubic
feet per one million barrels.

(2) Includes (199) billion cubic feet of natural gas and (152) million total
oil-equivalent barrels in Russia which were expropriated. See Note 2: Russia.  
  
128

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Natural Gas and Oil-Equivalent Proved Reserves (continued)| |  | |  | |  | |
| |  
|

Natural Gas

(billions of cubic feet)

| |

Oil-Equivalent

Total

All Products (1)

  

(millions of oil-equivalent barrels)  
  
| United  
States| | Canada/  
Other  
Americas| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/  
Oceania| | Total|  
| | |  
  
As of December 31, 2020

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proved developed reserves|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 10,375 | | | 472 | | | 399 | | | 318 | | | 3,323 |
| | 3,344 | | | 18,231 | | | 7,915 |  
Equity companies| 83 | | | -- | | | 293 | | | -- | | | 8,992 | | | -- | | |
9,368 | | | 2,326 |  
Proved undeveloped reserves| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 3,064 | | | 89 | | | 42 | | | 2 | | | 986 | | |
2,790 | | | 6,973 | | | 3,922 |  
Equity companies| 19 | | | -- | | | 67 | | | 917 | | | 2,385 | | | -- | | |
3,388 | | | 1,048 |  
  
Total proved reserves at December 31, 2020

| 13,541 | | | 561 | | | 801 | | | 1,237 | | | 15,686 | | | 6,134 | | | 37,960
| | | 15,211 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
As of December 31, 2021

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proved developed reserves| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 11,287 | | | 574 | | | 377 | | | 315 | | | 2,527 |
| | 3,513 | | | 18,593 | | | 10,540 |  
Equity companies| 117 | | | -- | | | 339 | | | -- | | | 6,017 | | | -- | | |
6,473 | | | 1,696 |  
Proved undeveloped reserves| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 3,701 | | | 345 | | | 6 | | | 2 | | | 1,166 | | |
2,850 | | | 8,070 | | | 4,896 |  
Equity companies| 23 | | | -- | | | 69 | | | 806 | | | 4,141 | | | -- | | |
5,039 | | | 1,404 |  
  
Total proved reserves at December 31, 2021

| 15,128 | | | 919 | | | 791 | | | 1,123 | | | 13,851 | | | 6,363 | | | 38,175
| | | 18,536 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
As of December 31, 2022

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Proved developed reserves| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 9,577 | | | 371 | | | 408 | | | 307 | | | 2,037 | |
| 3,162 | | | 15,862 | | | 9,627 |  
Equity companies| 127 | | | -- | | | 326 | | | 663 | | | 5,020 | | | -- | | |
6,136 | | | 1,516 |  
Proved undeveloped reserves| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated subsidiaries| 4,068 | | | 337 | | | 5 | | | 5 | | | 1,024 | | |
2,846 | | | 8,285 | | | 4,631 |  
Equity companies| -- | | | -- | | | 54 | | | -- | | | 7,289 | | | -- | | |
7,343 | | | 1,968 |  
  
Total proved reserves at December 31, 2022

| 13,772 | | | 708 | | | 793 | | | 975 | | | 15,370 | | | 6,008 | | | 37,626 |
| | 17,742 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Natural gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six billion cubic
feet per one million barrels.  
  
129

* * *

  

Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows

As required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the standardized
measure of discounted future net cash flows is computed by applying first-day-
of-the-month average prices, year-end costs and legislated tax rates, and a
discount factor of 10 percent to net proved reserves. The standardized measure
includes costs for future dismantlement, abandonment, and rehabilitation
obligations. The Corporation believes the standardized measure does not
provide a reliable estimate of the Corporation's expected future cash flows to
be obtained from the development and production of its oil and gas properties
or of the value of its proved oil and gas reserves. The standardized measure
is prepared on the basis of certain prescribed assumptions including first-
day-of-the-month average prices, which represent discrete points in time and
therefore may cause significant variability in cash flows from year to year as
prices change.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Standardized Measure of Discounted

Future Cash Flows

(millions of dollars)

| United States| |

Canada/Other Americas (1)

| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/ Oceania| | Total  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
As of December 31, 2020

| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Future cash inflows from sales of oil and gas| 93,520 | | | 38,193 | | | 2,734
| | | 15,411 | | | 138,080 | | | 19,794 | | | 307,732 |  
Future production costs| 53,635 | | | 19,971 | | | 1,815 | | | 6,527 | | |
42,378 | | | 3,188 | | | 127,514 |  
Future development costs| 27,668 | | | 10,991 | | | 4,244 | | | 6,223 | | |
13,432 | | | 7,580 | | | 70,138 |  
Future income tax expenses| (2,509)| | | 851 | | | (1,121)| | | 916 | | |
62,223 | | | 1,381 | | | 61,741 |  
Future net cash flows| 14,726 | | | 6,380 | | | (2,204)| | | 1,745 | | |
20,047 | | | 7,645 | | | 48,339 |  
Effect of discounting net cash flows at 10%| 8,564 | | | 1,116 | | | (1,565)|
| | (511)| | | 10,557 | | | 3,624 | | | 21,785 |  
Discounted future net cash flows| 6,162 | | | 5,264 | | | (639)| | | 2,256 | |
| 9,490 | | | 4,021 | | | 26,554 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Future cash inflows from sales of oil and gas| 5,304 | | | -- | | | 1,511 | |
| 740 | | | 63,105 | | | -- | | | 70,660 |  
Future production costs| 3,467 | | | -- | | | 694 | | | 247 | | | 29,170 | | |
-- | | | 33,578 |  
Future development costs| 2,243 | | | -- | | | 1,054 | | | 163 | | | 9,929 | |
| -- | | | 13,389 |  
Future income tax expenses| -- | | | -- | | | (115)| | | 42 | | | 8,088 | | |
-- | | | 8,015 |  
Future net cash flows| (406)| | | -- | | | (122)| | | 288 | | | 15,918 | | |
-- | | | 15,678 |  
Effect of discounting net cash flows at 10%| (378)| | | -- | | | (86)| | | 258
| | | 7,443 | | | -- | | | 7,237 |  
Discounted future net cash flows| (28)| | | -- | | | (36)| | | 30 | | | 8,475
| | | -- | | | 8,441 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total consolidated and equity interests in standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows| 6,134 | | | 5,264 | | | (675)| | | 2,286 | | | 17,965 |
| | 4,021 | | | 34,995 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Includes discounted future net cash flows attributable to noncontrolling
interests in ExxonMobil consolidated subsidiaries of $(150) million in 2020.  
  
130

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Standardized Measure of Discounted

Future Cash Flows (continued)

(millions of dollars)

| United States| |

Canada/Other Americas (1)

| | Europe| | Africa| | Asia| | Australia/ Oceania| | Total  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
As of December 31, 2021

| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Future cash inflows from sales of oil and gas| 217,023 | | | 209,711 | | |
4,322 | | | 24,812 | | | 211,255 | | | 69,015 | | | 736,138 |  
Future production costs| 63,464 | | | 111,468 | | | 1,142 | | | 7,700 | | |
55,241 | | | 14,880 | | | 253,895 |  
Future development costs| 29,941 | | | 31,736 | | | 2,113 | | | 5,921 | | |
14,519 | | | 7,286 | | | 91,516 |  
Future income tax expenses| 24,770 | | | 12,004 | | | 451 | | | 4,319 | | |
107,577 | | | 13,038 | | | 162,159 |  
Future net cash flows| 98,848 | | | 54,503 | | | 616 | | | 6,872 | | | 33,918
| | | 33,811 | | | 228,568 |  
Effect of discounting net cash flows at 10%| 50,524 | | | 25,793 | | | (502)|
| | 739 | | | 17,383 | | | 18,751 | | | 112,688 |  
Discounted future net cash flows| 48,324 | | | 28,710 | | | 1,118 | | | 6,133
| | | 16,535 | | | 15,060 | | | 115,880 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Future cash inflows from sales of oil and gas| 10,607 | | | -- | | | 5,889 | |
| 4,553 | | | 146,845 | | | -- | | | 167,894 |  
Future production costs| 5,005 | | | -- | | | 785 | | | 261 | | | 49,810 | | |
-- | | | 55,861 |  
Future development costs| 2,340 | | | -- | | | 1,137 | | | 62 | | | 8,317 | |
| -- | | | 11,856 |  
Future income tax expenses| -- | | | -- | | | 1,793 | | | 1,168 | | | 29,463 |
| | -- | | | 32,424 |  
Future net cash flows| 3,262 | | | -- | | | 2,174 | | | 3,062 | | | 59,255 | |
| -- | | | 67,753 |  
Effect of discounting net cash flows at 10%| 1,553 | | | -- | | | 683 | | |
1,868 | | | 25,710 | | | -- | | | 29,814 |  
Discounted future net cash flows| 1,709 | | | -- | | | 1,491 | | | 1,194 | | |
33,545 | | | -- | | | 37,939 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total consolidated and equity interests in standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows| 50,033 | | | 28,710 | | | 2,609 | | | 7,327 | | |
50,080 | | | 15,060 | | | 153,819 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
As of December 31, 2022

| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Subsidiaries|  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Future cash inflows from sales of oil and gas| 316,486 | | | 284,643 | | |
11,806 | | | 30,040 | | | 271,732 | | | 114,959 | | | 1,029,666 |  
Future production costs| 78,939 | | | 113,264 | | | 2,627 | | | 7,489 | | |
63,705 | | | 21,972 | | | 287,996 |  
Future development costs| 31,960 | | | 34,968 | | | 2,016 | | | 6,143 | | |
9,241 | | | 7,089 | | | 91,417 |  
Future income tax expenses| 45,278 | | | 31,603 | | | 3,164 | | | 8,300 | | |
156,595 | | | 24,955 | | | 269,895 |  
Future net cash flows| 160,309 | | | 104,808 | | | 3,999 | | | 8,108 | | |
42,191 | | | 60,943 | | | 380,358 |  
Effect of discounting net cash flows at 10%| 83,711 | | | 49,861 | | | 187 | |
| 322 | | | 21,772 | | | 34,896 | | | 190,749 |  
Discounted future net cash flows| 76,598 | | | 54,947 | | | 3,812 | | | 7,786
| | | 20,419 | | | 26,047 | | | 189,609 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Future cash inflows from sales of oil and gas| 12,312 | | | -- | | | 13,706 |
| | 7,194 | | | 261,409 | | | -- | | | 294,621 |  
Future production costs| 5,379 | | | -- | | | 1,981 | | | 266 | | | 96,788 | |
| -- | | | 104,414 |  
Future development costs| 1,773 | | | -- | | | 895 | | | 60 | | | 7,275 | | |
-- | | | 10,003 |  
Future income tax expenses| -- | | | -- | | | 5,262 | | | 1,965 | | | 51,838 |
| | -- | | | 59,065 |  
Future net cash flows| 5,160 | | | -- | | | 5,568 | | | 4,903 | | | 105,508 |
| | -- | | | 121,139 |  
Effect of discounting net cash flows at 10%| 2,236 | | | -- | | | 2,234 | | |
2,694 | | | 44,728 | | | -- | | | 51,892 |  
Discounted future net cash flows| 2,924 | | | -- | | | 3,334 | | | 2,209 | | |
60,780 | | | -- | | | 69,247 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total consolidated and equity interests in standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows| 79,522 | | | 54,947 | | | 7,146 | | | 9,995 | | |
81,199 | | | 26,047 | | | 258,856 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(1) Includes discounted future net cash flows attributable to noncontrolling
interests in ExxonMobil consolidated subsidiaries of $3,666 million in 2021
and $6,596 million in 2022.  
  
  

  

131

* * *

  

Change in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to
Proved Oil and Gas Reserves

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Consolidated and Equity Interests

(millions of dollars)

| 2020  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| | Share of Equity Method Investees| | Total
Consolidated and Equity Interests  
|  
  
Discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2019

| 67,500 | | | 22,416 | | | 89,916 |  
| | | | |  
Value of reserves added during the year due to extensions, discoveries,
improved recovery and net purchases/sales less related costs| 169 | | | -- | |
| 169 |  
Changes in value of previous-year reserves due to:| | | | |  
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced during the year, net of production
(lifting) costs| (15,048)| | | (3,818)| | | (18,866)|  
Development costs incurred during the year| 9,969 | | | 1,760 | | | 11,729 |  
Net change in prices, lifting and development costs| (80,444)| | | (21,739)| |
| (102,183)|  
Revisions of previous reserves estimates| 2,614 | | | 680 | | | 3,294 |  
Accretion of discount| 10,786 | | | 3,011 | | | 13,797 |  
Net change in income taxes| 31,008 | | | 6,131 | | | 37,139 |  
Total change in the standardized measure during the year| (40,946)| | |
(13,975)| | | (54,921)|  
| | | | |  
  
Discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2020

| 26,554 | | | 8,441 | | | 34,995 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Consolidated and Equity Interests

(millions of dollars)

| 2021  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| | Share of Equity Method Investees| | Total
Consolidated and Equity Interests  
|  
  
Discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2020

| 26,554 | | | 8,441 | | | 34,995 |  
| | | | |  
Value of reserves added during the year due to extensions, discoveries,
improved recovery and net purchases/sales less related costs| 11,922 | | | 22
| | | 11,944 |  
Changes in value of previous-year reserves due to:| | | | |  
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced during the year, net of production
(lifting) costs| (35,813)| | | (9,948)| | | (45,761)|  
Development costs incurred during the year| 7,033 | | | 1,563 | | | 8,596 |  
Net change in prices, lifting and development costs| 118,946 | | | 47,434 | |
| 166,380 |  
Revisions of previous reserves estimates| 27,126 | | | 2,507 | | | 29,633 |  
Accretion of discount| 3,762 | | | 1,201 | | | 4,963 |  
Net change in income taxes| (43,650)| | | (13,281)| | | (56,931)|  
Total change in the standardized measure during the year| 89,326 | | | 29,498
| | | 118,824 |  
| | | | |  
  
Discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2021

| 115,880 | | | 37,939 | | | 153,819 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Consolidated and Equity Interests

(millions of dollars)

| 2022  
Consolidated Subsidiaries| | Share of Equity Method Investees| | Total
Consolidated and Equity Interests  
|  
  
Discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2021

| 115,880 | | | 37,939 | | | 153,819 |  
| | | | |  
Value of reserves added during the year due to extensions, discoveries,  
improved recovery and net purchases/sales less related costs| 18,592 | | |
3,008 | | | 21,600 |  
Changes in value of previous-year reserves due to:| | | | |  
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced during the year, net of production
(lifting) costs| (57,344)| | | (17,037)| | | (74,381)|  
Development costs incurred during the year| 11,834 | | | 1,849 | | | 13,683 |  
Net change in prices, lifting and development costs| 139,844 | | | 51,094 | |
| 190,938 |  
Revisions of previous reserves estimates| (1,985)| | | 2,140 | | | 155 |  
Accretion of discount| 14,655 | | | 4,938 | | | 19,593 |  
Net change in income taxes| (51,867)| | | (14,684)| | | (66,551)|  
Total change in the standardized measure during the year| 73,729 | | | 31,308
| | | 105,037 |  
| | | | |  
  
Discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2022

| 189,609 | | | 69,247 | | | 258,856 |  
  
132

* * *

  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Exhibit| Description  
|  
  
[3(i)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408816000065/xomexhibit3i.htm)

| Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as restated November 30, 1999, and as
further amended effective June 20, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
3(i) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2015).  
|  
  
[3(ii)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408822000060/xomexhibit3ii-20221025.htm)

| By-Laws, as amended effective October 25, 2022 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3(ii) to the Registrant's Report on Form 8-K of October 31, 2022).  
|  
  
[4(vi)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408820000016/xomexhibit4vi.htm)

| Description of ExxonMobil Capital Stock (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4(vi) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2019).  
|  
  
[10(iii)(a.1)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408818000015/xomexhibit10iiia1.htm)

| 2003 Incentive Program, as approved by shareholders May 28, 2003
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(a.1) to the Registrant's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for 2017).*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(a.2)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408817000017/xomexhibit10iiia2.htm)

| Extended Provisions for Restricted Stock Agreements (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(a.2) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
10-K for 2016).*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(a.3)](xomexhibit10iiia3123122.htm)

| Extended Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements - Settlement in
Shares.*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(b.1)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408819000010/xomexhibit10iiib1.htm)

| Short Term Incentive Program, as amended (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(iii)(b.1) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
2018).*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(b.2)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408820000016/xomexhibit10iiib2.htm)

| Earnings Bonus Unit instrument (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(iii)(b.2) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2019).*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(b.3)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408821000069/xomexhibit99111232021.htm)

| Amendment of 2018 and 2019 Earnings Bonus Unit instruments, effective
November 23, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the
Registrant's Report on Form 8-K of November 30, 2021).*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(c.1)](xomexhibit10iiic1123122.htm)

| ExxonMobil Supplemental Savings Plan.*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(c.2)](xomexhibit10iiic2123122.htm)

| ExxonMobil Supplemental Pension Plan.*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(c.3)](xomexhibit10iiic3123122.htm)

| ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan.*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(d)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408817000017/xomexhibit10iiid.htm)

| ExxonMobil Executive Life Insurance and Death Benefit Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(d) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
for 2016).*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(f.1)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408819000010/xomexhibit10iiif1.htm)

| 2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.1) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
2018).*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(f.2)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408817000017/xomexhibit10iiif2.htm)

| Standing resolution for non-employee director restricted grants dated
September 26, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.2) to the
Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2016).*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(f.3)](xomexhibit10iiif3123122.htm)

| Form of restricted stock grant letter for non-employee directors.*  
|  
  
[10(iii)(f.4)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408820000037/xomexhibit10iiif4.htm)

| Standing resolution for non-employee director cash fees dated March 1, 2020
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.4) to the Registrant's Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2020).*  
|  
  
[14](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/34088/000003408818000015/xomexhibit14.htm)

| Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14
to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2017).  
|  
  
[21](xomexhibit21123122.htm)

| Subsidiaries of the registrant.  
|  
  
[23](xomexhibit23123122.htm)

| Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm.  
|  
  
[31.1](ex-311123122.htm)

| Certification (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Chief
Executive Officer.  
|  
  
[31.2](ex-312123122.htm)

| Certification (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Chief
Financial Officer.  
|  
  
[31.3](ex-313123122.htm)

| Certification (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by
Principal Accounting Officer.  
|  
  
[32.1](ex-321123122.htm)

| Section 1350 Certification (pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 906) by Chief
Executive Officer.  
|  
  
[32.2](ex-322123122.htm)

| Section 1350 Certification (pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 906) by Chief
Financial Officer.  
|  
  
[32.3](ex-323123122.htm)

| Section 1350 Certification (pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 906) by
Principal Accounting Officer.  
|  
101| Interactive data files (formatted as Inline XBRL).  
|  
104| Cover page interactive data file (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained
in Exhibit 101).  
_____________________|  
* Compensatory plan or arrangement required to be identified pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
  
The registrant has not filed with this report copies of the instruments
defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrant and its
subsidiaries for which consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements are
required to be filed. The registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such
instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

133

* * *

  

SIGNATURES

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  
|  |  
| EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION  
|  |  
| By:| /s/ DARREN W. WOODS  
  
Dated February 22, 2023

|  | Darren W. Woods, Chairman of the Board  
  
  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  
  
  

POWER OF ATTORNEY

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints John D.
Buchanan, Brian J. Conjelko, and Antony E. Peters  and each of them, his or
her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of
substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto,
and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them,
full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as he
or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them, or their or his or her
substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.  
  
| | | | |  
| | |  | |  
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated and on February 22, 2023.  
  
| | | | |  
Principal Executive Officer | | | Directors  
| | | | |  
/s/ DARREN W. WOODS| | | /s/ MICHAEL J. ANGELAKIS| | /s/ KAISA H. HIETALA  
Darren W. Woods, Chairman of the Board | | | Michael J. Angelakis| | Kaisa H.
Hietala  
| | | |  
| | | /s/ SUSAN K. AVERY| | /s/ JOSEPH L. HOOLEY  
Principal Financial Officer| | | Susan K. Avery| | Joseph L. Hooley  
| | |  | |  
/s/ KATHRYN A. MIKELLS| | | /s/ ANGELA F. BRALY| | /s/ STEVEN A. KANDARIAN  
Kathryn A. Mikells, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer| | |
Angela F. Braly| | Steven A. Kandarian  
| |  | |  
| | | /s/ URSULA M. BURNS| | /s/ ALEXANDER A. KARSNER  
Principal Accounting Officer | | | Ursula M. Burns| | Alexander A. Karsner  
| | | | |  
/s/ LEN M. FOX| | | /s/ GREGORY J. GOFF| | /s/ LAWRENCE W. KELLNER  
Len M. Fox, Vice President  
and Controller| | | Gregory J. Goff| | Lawrence W. Kellner  
| | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | /s/ JOHN D. HARRIS II| | /s/ JEFFREY W. UBBEN  
| | | John D. Harris II| | Jeffrey W. Ubben  
| | | | |  
  
134

