0000093410false2022FYhttp://fasb.org/us-
http://www.chevron.com/20221231#ContractWithCustomerLiabilityAndOtherNoncurrentLiabilityhttp://fasb.org/us-

  

| |  
---|---|---  
  
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

☑ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022

OR

☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ______ to ______

Commission File Number 001-00368

Chevron Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | 6001 Bollinger Canyon Road  
Delaware| | 94-0890210| |

San Ramon, California 94583-2324  
  
(State or other jurisdiction of  
incorporation or organization)| | (I.R.S. Employer  
Identification No.)| | (Address of principal executive offices)  
(Zip Code)  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
  
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (925) 842-1000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Title of each class| | Trading Symbol| | Name of each exchange on which
registered  
Common stock, par value $.75 per share| | CVX| | New York Stock Exchange  
  
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes þ No o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes o No þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes þ No o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such
files).

Yes þ No o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer,"
"accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth
company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Large accelerated filer| ☑| | Accelerated filer| | ☐  
Non-accelerated filer| ☐| | Smaller reporting company| | ☐  
| | | Emerging growth company| | ☐  
  
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has
elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new
or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a)
of the Exchange Act. o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and
attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting
firm that prepared or issued its audit report.  ☑

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by
check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the
filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial
statements. o

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements
that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by
any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period
pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined
in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes ☐ No þ

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity
was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of
the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second
fiscal quarter -- $283.4 billion (As of June 30, 2022)

Number of Shares of Common Stock outstanding as of February 10, 2023 --
1,906,674,044

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(To The Extent Indicated Herein)

Notice of the 2023 Annual Meeting and 2023 Proxy Statement, to be filed
pursuant to Rule 14a-6(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in
connection with the company's 2023 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (in Part
III)| |  
---|---|---  
  
  

* * *

  

  

  

TABLE OF CONTENTS

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
ITEM| | PAGE|  
  
PART I

|  
  
1.

|

Business

|

3

|  
|

General Development of Business

|

3

|  
|

Description of Business and Properties

|

6

|  
|

Upstream

|

6

|  
|

Downstream

|

16

|  
|

Other Businesses

|

19

|  
  
1A.

|

Risk Factors

|

20

|  
  
1B.

|

Unresolved Staff Comments

|

26

|  
  
2.

|

Properties

|

26

|  
  
3.

|

Legal Proceedings

|

26

|  
  
4.

|

Mine Safety Disclosures

|

26

|  
|

Information about our Executive Officers

|

26

|  
  
PART II

|  
  
5.

|

Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

|

27

|  
  
6.

|

[Reserved]

|

27

|  
  
7.

|

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

|

27

|  
  
7A.

|

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

|

27

|  
  
8.

|

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

|

27

|  
  
9.

|

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

|

27

|  
  
9A.

|

Controls and Procedures

|

27

|  
  
9B.

|

Other Information

|

28

|  
  
9C.

|

Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

|

28

|  
  
PART III

|  
  
10.

|

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

|

29

|  
  
11.

|

Executive Compensation

|

30

|  
  
12.

|

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters

|

30

|  
  
13.

|

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

|

30

|  
  
14.

|

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

|

30

|  
  
PART IV

|  
  
15.

|

Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules

|

112

|  
|

Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

|

112

|  
  
16.

|

Form 10-K Summary

|

112

|  
|

Signatures

|

116

|  
  
1

* * *

  

  

  

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION  
FOR THE PURPOSE OF "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE  
PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

This Annual Report on Form 10-K of Chevron Corporation contains forward-
looking statements relating to Chevron's operations and energy transition
plans that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and
projections about the petroleum, chemicals and other energy-related
industries. Words or phrases such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends,"
"plans," "targets," "advances," "commits," "drives," "aims," "forecasts,"
"projects," "believes," "approaches," "seeks," "schedules," "estimates,"
"positions," "pursues," "may," "can," "could," "should," "will," "budgets,"
"outlook," "trends," "guidance," "focus," "on track," "goals," "objectives,"
"strategies," "opportunities," "poised," "potential," "ambitions," "aspires"
and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking
statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are
subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are
beyond the company's control and are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual
outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or
forecasted in such forward-looking statements. The reader should not place
undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the
date of this report. Unless legally required, Chevron undertakes no obligation
to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.

Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those in the forward-looking statements are: changing crude
oil and natural gas prices and demand for the company's products, and
production curtailments due to market conditions; crude oil production quotas
or other actions that might be imposed by the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries and other producing countries; technological advancements;
changes to government policies in the countries in which the company operates;
public health crises, such as pandemics (including coronavirus (COVID-19)) and
epidemics, and any related government policies and actions; disruptions in the
company's global supply chain, including supply chain constraints and
escalation of the cost of goods and services; changing economic, regulatory
and political environments in the various countries in which the company
operates; general domestic and international economic and political
conditions, including the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the
global response to such conflict; changing refining, marketing and chemicals
margins; actions of competitors or regulators; timing of exploration expenses;
timing of crude oil liftings; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources
or product substitutes; development of large carbon capture and offset
markets; the results of operations and financial condition of the company's
suppliers, vendors, partners and equity affiliates, particularly during the
COVID-19 pandemic; the inability or failure of the company's joint-venture
partners to fund their share of operations and development activities; the
potential failure to achieve expected net production from existing and future
crude oil and natural gas development projects; potential delays in the
development, construction or start-up of planned projects; the potential
disruption or interruption of the company's operations due to war, accidents,
political events, civil unrest, severe weather, cyber threats, terrorist acts,
or other natural or human causes beyond the company's control; the potential
liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future
environmental regulations and litigation; significant operational, investment
or product changes undertaken or required by existing or future environmental
statutes and regulations, including international agreements and national or
regional legislation and regulatory measures to limit or reduce greenhouse gas
emissions; the potential liability resulting from pending or future
litigation; the company's future acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
shares or the delay or failure of such transactions to close based on required
closing conditions; the potential for gains and losses from asset dispositions
or impairments; government mandated sales, divestitures, recapitalizations,
taxes and tax audits, tariffs, sanctions, changes in fiscal terms or
restrictions on scope of company operations; foreign currency movements
compared with the U.S. dollar; higher inflation and related impacts; material
reductions in corporate liquidity and access to debt markets; the receipt of
required Board authorizations to implement capital allocation strategies,
including future stock repurchase programs and dividend payments; the effects
of changed accounting rules under generally accepted accounting principles
promulgated by rule-setting bodies; the company's ability to identify and
mitigate the risks and hazards inherent in operating in the global energy
industry; and the factors set forth under the heading "Risk Factors" on pages
20 through 26 in this report. Other unpredictable or unknown factors not
discussed in this report could also have material adverse effects on forward-
looking statements.

2

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
PART I

Item 1. Business

General Development of Business

Summary Description of Chevron

Chevron Corporation,* a Delaware corporation, manages its investments in
subsidiaries and affiliates and provides administrative, financial, management
and technology support to U.S. and international subsidiaries that engage in
integrated energy and chemicals operations. Upstream operations consist
primarily of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting crude oil
and natural gas; processing, liquefaction, transportation and regasification
associated with liquefied natural gas; transporting crude oil by major
international oil export pipelines; transporting, storage and marketing of
natural gas; and a gas-to-liquids plant. Downstream operations consist
primarily of refining crude oil into petroleum products; marketing of crude
oil, refined products, and lubricants; manufacturing and marketing of
renewable fuels; transporting crude oil and refined products by pipeline,
marine vessel, motor equipment and rail car; and manufacturing and marketing
of commodity petrochemicals, plastics for industrial uses and fuel and
lubricant additives.

A list of the company's significant subsidiaries is presented in [Exhibit
21.1](cvx12312022ex211.htm).

Overview of Petroleum Industry

Petroleum industry operations and profitability are influenced by many
factors. Prices for crude oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, petroleum
products and petrochemicals are generally determined by supply and demand.
Production levels from the members of Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC), Russia and the United States are the major factors in
determining worldwide supply. Demand for crude oil and its products and for
natural gas is largely driven by the conditions of local, national and global
economies, although weather patterns, the pace of energy transition and
taxation relative to other energy sources also play a significant part. Laws
and governmental policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and
the environment, affect where and how companies invest, conduct their
operations, select feedstocks, and formulate their products and, in some
cases, limit their profits directly.

Strong competition exists in all sectors of the petroleum and petrochemical
industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of industry and
individual consumers. In the upstream business, Chevron competes with fully
integrated, major global petroleum companies, as well as independent and
national petroleum companies, for the acquisition of crude oil and natural gas
leases and other properties and for the equipment and labor required to
develop and operate those properties. In its downstream business, Chevron
competes with fully integrated, major petroleum companies, as well as
independent refining and marketing, transportation and chemicals entities and
national petroleum companies in the refining, manufacturing, sale and
marketing of fuels, lubricants, additives and petrochemicals.

Operating Environment

Refer to pages 32 through 40 of this Form 10-K in Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of
the company's current business environment and outlook.

Chevron's Strategic Direction

Chevron's strategy is to leverage our strengths to safely deliver lower carbon
energy to a growing world. Our primary objective is to deliver higher returns,
lower carbon and superior shareholder value in any business environment. We
are building on our capabilities, assets and customer relationships as we aim
to lead in lower carbon intensity oil, products and natural gas, as well as
advance new products and solutions that reduce the carbon emissions of major
industries. We aim to grow our traditional oil and gas business, lower the
carbon intensity of our operations and grow new lower carbon businesses in
renewable fuels, hydrogen, carbon capture, offsets, and other emerging
technologies.

Information about the company is available on the company's website at
www.chevron.com. Information contained on the company's website is not part of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any
amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on
the company's website soon after such reports are filed with or furnished to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The reports are also
available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

  

  

________________________________________________________

* Incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as Standard Oil Company of California, the company adopted the name Chevron Corporation in 1984 and ChevronTexaco Corporation in 2001. In 2005, ChevronTexaco Corporation changed its name to Chevron Corporation. As used in this report, the term "Chevron" and such terms as "the company," "the corporation," "our," "we," "us" and "its" may refer to Chevron Corporation, one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries, or all of them taken as a whole, but unless stated otherwise they do not include "affiliates" of Chevron -- i.e., those companies accounted for by the equity method (generally owned 50 percent or less) or non-equity method investments. All of these terms are used for convenience only and are not intended as a precise description of any of the separate companies, each of which manages its own affairs. 

3

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
Human Capital Management

Chevron invests in its workforce and culture, with the objective of engaging
employees to develop their full potential to deliver energy solutions and
enable human progress. The Chevron Way explains the company's beliefs, vision,
purpose and values. It guides how the company's employees work and establishes
a common understanding of culture and aspirations.

Chevron hires, develops, and strives to retain a diverse workforce of high-
performing talent, and fosters a culture that values diversity, inclusion and
employee engagement. Chevron leadership is accountable for the company's
investment in people and the company's culture. This includes reviews of
metrics addressing critical function hiring, leadership development,
retention, diversity and inclusion, and employee engagement.

The following table summarizes the number of Chevron employees by gender,
where data is available, and by region as of December 31, 2022.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31, 2022  
| Female| Male|

Gender data not available1

| Total Employees  
| Number of Employees| Percentage| Number of Employees| Percentage| Number of
Employees| Percentage| Number of Employees| Percentage  
Non-Service Station Employees| | | | | | | |  
U.S.| 5,343 | | 27 | %| 14,609 | | 73 | %| 23 | | -- | %| 19,975 | | 46 | %  
Other Americas| 1,005 | | 28 | %| 2,536 | | 71 | %| 21 | | 1 | %| 3,562 | | 8
| %  
Africa| 613 | | 16 | %| 3,246 | | 84 | %| 3 | | -- | %| 3,862 | | 9 | %  
Asia| 2,420 | | 34 | %| 4,675 | | 66 | %| 32 | | -- | %| 7,127 | | 16 | %  
Australia| 557 | | 25 | %| 1,629 | | 74 | %| 3 | | -- | %| 2,189 | | 5 | %  
Europe| 433 | | 28 | %| 1,099 | | 71 | %| 11 | | 1 | %| 1,543 | | 4 | %  
Total Non-Service Station Employees| 10,371 | | 27 | %| 27,794 | | 73 | %| 93
| | -- | %| 38,258 | | 87 | %  
Service Station Employees| 2,121 | | 38 | %| 1,675 | | 30 | %| 1,792 | | 32 |
%| 5,588 | | 13 | %  
Total Employees| 12,492 | | 28 | %| 29,469 | | 67 | %| 1,885 | | 4 | %| 43,846
| | 100 | %  
  
1 Includes employees where gender data was not collected or employee chose not
to disclose gender.

Hiring, Development and Retention

The company's approach to attracting, developing and retaining a global,
diverse workforce of high-performing talent is anchored in a long-term
employment model that fosters an environment of personal growth and
engagement. Chevron's philosophy is to offer compelling career opportunities
and a competitive total compensation and benefits package linked to individual
and enterprise performance. Chevron recruits new employees in part through
partnerships with universities and diversity associations. In addition, the
company recruits experienced hires to provide specialized skills.

Chevron's learning and development programs are designed to help employees
achieve their full potential by building technical, operating and leadership
capabilities at all levels to produce energy safely, reliably and efficiently.
Chevron's leadership regularly reviews metrics on employee training and
development programs, which are continually refined to meet the needs of our
evolving business. The company invests in developing leadership at every
level. For example, Chevron expanded a coaching program that reaches deeper
into the organization, including frontline supervisors, managers and
individual contributors.

In addition, to ensure business continuity, leadership regularly reviews the
talent pipeline, identifies and develops succession candidates, and builds
succession plans for key positions. The Board of Directors provides oversight
of CEO and executive succession planning.

Management routinely reviews the retention of its professional population,
which includes executives, all levels of management, and the majority of its
regular employee population. The annual voluntary attrition for this
population was 4.5 percent, which is in line with rates over a five-year
comparison period. The voluntary attrition rate generally excludes employee
departures under enterprise-wide restructuring programs. Chevron believes its
low voluntary attrition rate is in part a result of the company's commitment
to employee development, its long-term employment model, competitive pay and
benefits, and its culture.

  

4

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
Diversity and Inclusion

Chevron believes human ingenuity has the power to solve difficult problems
when diverse people, ideas and experiences come together in an inclusive
environment. Chevron reinforces the values of diversity and inclusion through
recruitment and talent development, equitable selection processes, community
partnerships and supplier diversity. Chevron strives to build an inclusive
environment through innovative programs such as the company's MARC (Men
Advocating Real Change) program launched in 2017, in partnership with the non-
profit organization Catalyst, to facilitate discussions on gender equity in
the workplace. MARC is active in over 35 Chevron locations on six continents
around the world with over 5,000 participants since inception. Also, when
hiring for a position, many selection processes now include inclusion
counselors who help check against unconscious biases and provide outside
perspectives.

Chevron's leadership development also reflects Chevron's diversity focus. In
2022, Chevron offered numerous leadership programs to promote leadership
diversity, including the Global Women's Leadership Development Program,
Transformational Leadership for Multicultural Women, Executive Leadership
Council (U.S. Black employees), Asia Pacific Leadership Development Program,
Asian American Leadership Development Program, and Latino Leadership
Development Program. In addition, Chevron has 11 employee networks (voluntary
groups of employees that come together based on shared identity or interests)
and a Chairman's Inclusion Council, which provides the employee network
presidents with a direct line of communication to the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, the Chief Human Resources Officer, the Chief Diversity and
Inclusion Officer, and the executive leadership team to collaborate and
discuss how employee networks can reinforce Chevron's values of diversity and
inclusion.

Employee Engagement

Employee engagement is an indicator of employee well-being and commitment to
the company's values, purpose and strategies. Chevron regularly conducts
employee surveys to assess the health of the company's culture; recent surveys
indicate high employee engagement. Chevron's survey frequency enables the
company to better understand employee sentiment throughout the year and gain
insights into employee well-being. The company also introduced surveys to
understand employee experience trends throughout the employee lifecycle.

Chevron prioritizes the health, safety and well-being of its employees.
Chevron's safety culture empowers every member of its workforce to exercise
stop-work authority without repercussion to address any potential unsafe work
conditions. The company has set clear expectations for leaders to deliver
operational excellence by demonstrating their commitment to prioritizing the
safety and health of its workforce, and the protection of communities, the
environment and the company's assets. Additionally, the company offers long-
standing employee support programs such as Ombuds, an independent resource
designed to equip employees with options to address and resolve workplace
issues; a company hotline, where employees can report concerns to the
Corporate Compliance department; and an Employee Assistance Program, a
confidential consulting service that can help employees resolve a broad range
of personal, family and work-related concerns. In February, Chevron received
the 2023 Platinum Bell Seal for Workplace Mental Health by Mental Health
America. The Bell Seal is a first-of-its-kind workplace mental health
certification that recognizes employers who strive to create mentally healthy
workplaces for their employees.

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

5

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
Description of Business and Properties

The upstream and downstream activities of the company and its equity
affiliates are widely dispersed geographically, with operations and projects*
in North America, South America, Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia. These
activities are managed by the Oil, Products and Gas organization. Tabulations
of segment sales and other operating revenues, earnings, assets, and income
taxes for the three years ending December 31, 2022, and assets as of the end
of 2022 and 2021 -- for the United States and the company's international
geographic areas -- are in Note 14 Operating Segments and Geographic Data to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. Similar comparative data for the
company's investments in and income from equity affiliates and property, plant
and equipment are in Note 15 Investments and Advances and Note 18 Property,
Plant and Equipment. Refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the
company's Capital Expenditures.

  

Upstream

Reserves

Refer to Table V for a tabulation of the company's proved reserves by
geographic area, at the beginning of 2020 and at each year-end from 2020
through 2022. Reserves governance, technologies used in establishing proved
reserves additions, and major changes to proved reserves by geographic area
for the three-year period ended December 31, 2022, are summarized in the
discussion for Table V. Discussion is also provided regarding the nature of,
status of, and planned future activities associated with the development of
proved undeveloped reserves. The company recognizes reserves for projects with
various development periods, sometimes exceeding five years. The external
factors that impact the duration of a project include scope and complexity,
remoteness or adverse operating conditions, infrastructure constraints, and
contractual limitations.

At December 31, 2022, 36 percent of the company's net proved oil-equivalent
reserves were located in the United States, 16 percent were located in
Australia and 14 percent were located in Kazakhstan.

The net proved reserve balances at the end of each of the three years 2020
through 2022 are shown in the following table:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31|  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020|  
Crude Oil, Condensate and Synthetic Oil  -- Millions of barrels| | | | | |  
Consolidated Companies| 3,868 | | | 3,821 | | | 3,766 | |  
Affiliated Companies| 1,129 | | | 1,254 | | | 1,553 | |  
Total Crude Oil, Condensate and Synthetic Oil| 4,997 | | | 5,075 | | | 5,319 |
|  
Natural Gas Liquids  -- Millions of barrels| | | | | |  
Consolidated Companies| 1,002 | | | 935 | | | 709 | |  
Affiliated Companies| 86 | | | 103 | | | 119 | |  
Total Natural Gas Liquids| 1,088 | | | 1,038 | | | 828 | |  
Natural Gas -- Billions of cubic feet| | | | | |  
Consolidated Companies| 28,765 | | | 28,314 | | | 27,006 | |  
Affiliated Companies| 2,099 | | | 2,594 | | | 2,916 | |  
Total Natural Gas| 30,864 | | | 30,908 | | | 29,922 | |  
  
Oil-Equivalent -- Millions of barrels1

| | | | | |  
Consolidated Companies| 9,664 | | | 9,475 | | | 8,976 | |  
Affiliated Companies| 1,565 | | | 1,789 | | | 2,158 | |  
Total Oil-Equivalent| 11,229 | | | 11,264 | | | 11,134 | |  
  
1 Oil-equivalent conversion ratio is 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas = 1
barrel of crude oil.

________________________________________________________

* As used in this report, the term "project" may describe new upstream development activity, individual phases in a multiphase development, maintenance activities, certain existing assets, new investments in downstream and chemicals capacity, investments in emerging and sustainable energy activities, and certain other activities. All of these terms are used for convenience only and are not intended as a precise description of the term "project" as it relates to any specific governmental law or regulation.

  

6

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
Average Sales Prices and Production Costs per Unit of Production

Refer to Table IV for the company's average sales price per barrel of crude
(including crude oil and condensate) and natural gas liquids and per thousand
cubic feet of natural gas produced, and the average production cost per oil-
equivalent barrel for 2022, 2021 and 2020.

Gross and Net Productive Wells

The following table summarizes gross and net productive wells at year-end 2022
for the company and its affiliates:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31, 2022|  
|

Productive Oil Wells1

|

Productive Gas Wells1

|  
| Gross | | Net | Gross | | Net |  
United States| 34,834 | | | 27,364 | | 2,078 | | | 1,712 | |  
Other Americas| 1,144 | | | 708 | | 266 | | | 176 | |  
Africa| 1,623 | | | 635 | | 46 | | | 17 | |  
Asia| 1,764 | | | 779 | | 1,431 | | | 436 | |  
Australia| 532 | | | 299 | | 109 | | | 29 | |  
Europe| 38 | | | 7 | | -- | | | -- | |  
Total Consolidated Companies| 39,935 | | | 29,792 | | 3,930 | | | 2,370 | |  
  
Affiliates2

| 1,677 | | | 607 | | -- | | | -- | |  
Total Including Affiliates| 41,612 | | | 30,399 | | 3,930 | | | 2,370 | |  
Multiple completion wells included above| 715 | | | 411 | | 147 | | | 115 | |  
  
1 Gross wells represent the total number of wells in which Chevron has an
ownership interest. Net wells represent the sum of Chevron's ownership
interest in gross wells.  
  
2 Includes gross 1,427 and net 482 productive oil wells for interests
accounted for by the non-equity method.

|  
  
  

Production Outlook

The company estimates its average worldwide oil-equivalent production in 2023,
assuming a Brent crude oil price of $80 per barrel, to be flat to up three
percent compared to 2022. This estimate is subject to many factors and
uncertainties, as described beginning on page 36. Refer to the Review of
Ongoing Exploration and Production Activities in Key Areas for a discussion of
the company's major crude oil and natural gas development projects.

Acreage

At December 31, 2022, the company owned or had under lease or similar
agreements undeveloped and developed crude oil and natural gas properties
throughout the world. The geographical distribution of the company's acreage
is shown in the following table:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

Undeveloped2

| | Developed | | Developed and Undeveloped |  
  
Thousands of acres1

| Gross | | Net | | Gross | | Net | | Gross | | Net |  
United States| 3,784 | | | 3,277 | | | 3,909 | | | 2,565 | | | 7,693 | | |
5,842 | |  
Other Americas| 19,322 | | | 11,109 | | | 1,088 | | | 239 | | | 20,410 | | |
11,348 | |  
Africa| 10,286 | | | 5,695 | | | 1,884 | | | 793 | | | 12,170 | | | 6,488 | |  
Asia| 16,850 | | | 6,795 | | | 1,105 | | | 430 | | | 17,955 | | | 7,225 | |  
Australia| 2,853 | | | 1,933 | | | 2,069 | | | 815 | | | 4,922 | | | 2,748 | |  
Europe| 103 | | | 20 | | | 15 | | | 3 | | | 118 | | | 23 | |  
Total Consolidated Companies| 53,198 | | | 28,829 | | | 10,070 | | | 4,845 | |
| 63,268 | | | 33,674 | |  
  
Affiliates3

| 695 | | | 286 | | | 109 | | | 50 | | | 804 | | | 336 | |  
Total Including Affiliates| 53,893 | | | 29,115 | | | 10,179 | | | 4,895 | | |
64,072 | | | 34,010 | |  
  
1  Gross acres represent the total number of acres in which Chevron has an
ownership interest. Net acres represent the sum of Chevron's ownership
interest in gross acres.

|  
  
2 The gross undeveloped acres that will expire in 2023, 2024 and 2025 if
production is not established by certain required dates are 4,387, 996, and
1,412, respectively.

|  
  
3 Includes gross 405 and net 141 undeveloped and gross 19 and net 5 developed
acreage for interests accounted for by the non-equity method.

|  
  
7

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
Net Production of Crude Oil, Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas

The following table summarizes the net production of crude oil, natural gas
liquids and natural gas for 2022 and 2021 by the company and its affiliates.
Worldwide oil-equivalent production of 3 million barrels per day in 2022 was
down approximately 3 percent from 2021. International production decreased 7
percent in 2022 primarily due to the end of concessions in Thailand and
Indonesia, while U.S. production increased 4 percent compared to 2021, mainly
in the Permian Basin. Refer to the Results of Operations section for a
detailed discussion of the factors explaining the changes in production for
liquids (including crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and synthetic
oil) and natural gas, and refer to Table V for information on annual
production by geographical region.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | Components of Oil-Equivalent|  
| Oil-Equivalent| | Crude Oil| | Natural Gas Liquids| | Natural Gas|  
Thousands of barrels per day (MBPD)|

(MBPD)1

| |

(MBPD)2

| | (MBPD)| | (MMCFPD)|  
Millions of cubic feet per day (MMCFPD)| 2022| 2021| | 2022| 2021| | 2022|
2021| | 2022| 2021|  
United States| 1,181 | | 1,139 | | | 650 | | 643 | | | 238 | | 215 | | | 1,758
| | 1,689 | |  
Other Americas | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Argentina

| 40 | | 33 | | | 35 | | 28 | | | -- | | -- | | | 34 | | 31 | |  
  
Brazil

| -- | | 3 | | | -- | | 3 | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | |  
  
Canada3

| 139 | | 161 | | | 109 | | 129 | | | 7 | | 7 | | | 135 | | 150 | |  
Total Other Americas| 179 | | 197 | | | 144 | | 160 | | | 7 | | 7 | | | 169 |
| 181 | |  
Africa | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Angola

| 70 | | 78 | | | 57 | | 65 | | | 4 | | 5 | | | 49 | | 52 | |  
Equatorial Guinea| 56 | | 52 | | | 12 | | 12 | | | 7 | | 6 | | | 223 | | 204 |
|  
  
Nigeria

| 152 | | 165 | | | 101 | | 118 | | | 6 | | 6 | | | 266 | | 246 | |  
  
Republic of Congo

| 31 | | 39 | | | 28 | | 36 | | | 1 | | 1 | | | 11 | | 13 | |  
Total Africa| 309 | | 334 | | | 198 | | 231 | | | 18 | | 18 | | | 549 | | 515
| |  
Asia | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Bangladesh

| 118 | | 112 | | | 2 | | 2 | | | -- | | -- | | | 696 | | 655 | |  
  
China

| 28 | | 30 | | | 10 | | 12 | | | -- | | -- | | | 109 | | 104 | |  
  
Indonesia4

| 3 | | 67 | | | 1 | | 62 | | | -- | | -- | | | 18 | | 30 | |  
Israel| 101 | | 91 | | | 1 | | 1 | | | -- | | -- | | | 602 | | 541 | |  
  
Kazakhstan

| 40 | | 41 | | | 24 | | 24 | | | -- | | -- | | | 96 | | 103 | |  
Kurdistan Region of Iraq| 1 | | 2 | | | 1 | | 2 | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | |
-- | |  
  
Myanmar

| 17 | | 15 | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | 94 | | 92 | |  
Partitioned Zone| 60 | | 58 | | | 58 | | 56 | | | -- | | -- | | | 7 | | 7 | |  
  
Thailand4

| 67 | | 163 | | | 18 | | 41 | | | -- | | -- | | | 298 | | 736 | |  
Total Asia| 435 | | 579 | | | 115 | | 200 | | | -- | | -- | | | 1,920 | |
2,268 | |  
Australia| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Australia| 482 | | 449 | | | 42 | | 43 | | | -- | | -- | | | 2,643 | | 2,434 |
|  
Total Australia| 482 | | 449 | | | 42 | | 43 | | | -- | | -- | | | 2,643 | |
2,434 | |  
Europe | | | | | | | | | | | |  
United Kingdom| 14 | | 14 | | | 13 | | 13 | | | -- | | -- | | | 9 | | 6 | |  
Total Europe| 14 | | 14 | | | 13 | | 13 | | | -- | | -- | | | 9 | | 6 | |  
Total Consolidated Companies| 2,600 | | 2,712 | | | 1,162 | | 1,290 | | | 263
| | 240 | | | 7,048 | | 7,093 | |  
  
Affiliates5

| 399 | | 387 | | | 278 | | 263 | | | 16 | | 21 | | | 629 | | 616 | |  
  
Total Including Affiliates6

| 2,999 | | 3,099 | | | 1,440 | | 1,553 | | | 279 | | 261 | | | 7,677 | |
7,709 | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
1 Oil-equivalent conversion ratio is 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas = 1
barrel of crude oil.

|  
  
2 Includes crude oil, condensate and synthetic oil.

|  
  
3 Includes synthetic oil:

| 45 | | 55| | 45 | | 55| | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
4 Chevron concessions expired in 2021 (Indonesia) and 2022 (Thailand).

|  
  
5 Volumes represent Chevron's share of production by affiliates, including
Tengizchevroil in Kazakhstan and Angola LNG in Angola.

|  
  
6 Volumes include natural gas consumed in operations of 570 million and 592
million cubic feet per day in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Total "as sold"
natural gas volumes were 7,107 million and 7,117 million cubic feet per day
for 2022 and 2021, respectively.

|  
  
Delivery Commitments

The company sells crude oil and natural gas from its producing operations
under a variety of contractual obligations. Most contracts generally commit
the company to sell quantities based on production from specified properties,
but some natural gas and crude oil sales contracts specify delivery of fixed
and determinable quantities.

8

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
In the United States, the company is contractually committed to deliver
approximately 7 million barrels of crude oil and 729 billion cubic feet of
natural gas to third parties from 2023 through 2025. The company believes it
can satisfy these contracts through a combination of equity production from
the company's proved developed U.S. reserves and third-party purchases. These
commitments are primarily based on contracts with indexed pricing terms.

Outside the United States, the company is contractually committed to deliver a
total of 2.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas to third parties from 2023
through 2025 from operations in Australia and Israel. The Australia sales
contracts contain variable pricing formulas that generally reference the
prevailing market price for crude oil, natural gas or other petroleum products
at the time of delivery. The sales contracts for Israel contain formulas that
generally reflect an initial base price subject to price indexation, Brent-
linked or other, over the life of the contract. The company believes it can
satisfy these contracts from quantities available from production of the
company's proved developed reserves in these countries.

Development Activities

Refer to Table I for details associated with the company's development
expenditures and costs of proved property acquisitions for 2022, 2021 and
2020.

The following table summarizes the company's net interest in productive and
dry development wells completed in each of the past three years, and the
status of the company's development wells drilling at December 31, 2022. A
"development well" is a well drilled within the known area of a crude oil or
natural gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be
productive.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Wells Drilling*| | Net Wells Completed |  
| at 12/31/22| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020|  
| Gross | Net | | Prod. | Dry | | Prod. | Dry | | Prod. | Dry |  
United States| 185 | | 98 | | | 454 | | 2 | | | 319 | | 2 | | | 539 | | 2 | |  
Other Americas| 7 | | 5 | | | 35 | | -- | | | 54 | | -- | | | 27 | | -- | |  
Africa| 3 | | 1 | | | 6 | | -- | | | 4 | | -- | | | 5 | | -- | |  
Asia| 23 | | 8 | | | 32 | | 1 | | | 35 | | -- | | | 94 | | 2 | |  
Australia| -- | | -- | | | 1 | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | |  
Europe| -- | | -- | | | 1 | | -- | | | 1 | | -- | | | 1 | | -- | |  
Total Consolidated Companies| 218 | | 112 | | | 529 | | 3 | | | 413 | | 2 | |
| 666 | | 4 | |  
Affiliates| 13 | | 1 | | | 6 | | -- | | | 8 | | -- | | | 13 | | -- | |  
Total Including Affiliates| 231 | | 113 | | | 535 | | 3 | | | 421 | | 2 | | |
679 | | 4 | |  
* Gross wells represent the total number of wells in which Chevron has an ownership interest. Net wells represent the sum of Chevron's ownership interest in gross wells.|   
  
Exploration Activities

Refer to Table I for detail on the company's exploration expenditures and
costs of unproved property acquisitions for 2022, 2021 and 2020.

The following table summarizes the company's net interests in productive and
dry exploratory wells completed in each of the last three years, and the
number of exploratory wells drilling at December 31, 2022. "Exploratory wells"
are wells drilled to find and produce crude oil or natural gas in unknown
areas and include delineation and appraisal wells, which are wells drilled to
find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of crude oil
or natural gas in another reservoir or to extend a known reservoir.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Wells Drilling*| | Net Wells Completed |  
| at 12/31/22| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020|  
| Gross | Net | | Prod. | Dry | | Prod. | Dry | | Prod. | Dry |  
United States| 1 | | -- | | | 3 | | 2 | | | 2 | | 2 | | | 4 | | 1 | |  
Other Americas| 1 | | -- | | | 1 | | 1 | | | -- | | -- | | | 2 | | 2 | |  
Africa| -- | | -- | | | 1 | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | |  
Asia| 3 | | 2 | | | 2 | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | |  
Australia| -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | |  
Europe| -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | |  
Total Consolidated Companies| 5 | | 2 | | | 7 | | 3 | | | 2 | | 2 | | | 6 | |
3 | |  
Affiliates| -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | | | -- | | -- | |  
Total Including Affiliates| 5 | | 2 | | | 7 | | 3 | | | 2 | | 2 | | | 6 | | 3
| |  
* Gross wells represent the total number of wells in which Chevron has an ownership interest. Net wells represent the sum of Chevron's ownership interest in gross wells.|   
  
9

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
Review of Ongoing Exploration and Production Activities in Key Areas

Chevron has exploration and production activities in many of the world's major
hydrocarbon basins. Chevron's 2022 key upstream activities, some of which are
also discussed in the section Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, are presented below. The
comments include references to "total production" and "net production," which
are defined under "Production" in [Exhibit 99.1](cvx12312022ex991.htm).

The discussion that follows references the status of proved reserves
recognition for significant long-lead-time projects not on production as well
as for projects recently placed on production. Reserves are not discussed for
exploration activities or recent discoveries that have not advanced to a
project stage, or for mature areas of production that do not have individual
projects requiring significant levels of capital or exploratory investment.

United States

Upstream activities in the United States are primarily located in Texas, New
Mexico, Colorado, California, and the Gulf of Mexico. Acreage for the United
States can be found in the Acreage table. Net daily oil-equivalent production
in the United States can be found in the Net Production of Crude Oil, Natural
Gas Liquids and Natural Gas table.

As one of the largest producers in the Permian Basin, Chevron continues to
capitalize on its advantaged portfolio in west Texas and southeast New Mexico
with an outlook of one million barrels of net oil equivalent production per
day by 2025. The asset is comprised of stacked formations enabling production
from multiple geologic zones from single surface locations and staging the
development for optimized capacity utilization of facilities and
infrastructure. The company has implemented a factory development strategy
utilizing multi-well pads to drill a series of horizontal wells that are
subsequently completed concurrently using hydraulic fracture stimulation. This
manufacturing-style process, combined with advantaged acreage holdings and
technological advancements, have enabled capital expenditure productivity
improvements. Continued operational efficiencies and diversified land assets
via non-operated joint ventures and royalty positions have also contributed to
higher returns throughout the Permian portfolio. In addition to ongoing
emission reduction and water handling initiatives, construction of a 50
percent joint venture solar power project in New Mexico to supply renewable
energy for our oil and gas operations was completed and is expected to be
operational in the first half of 2023. In 2022, Chevron's net daily
unconventional production in the Permian Basin averaged 327,000 barrels of
crude oil, 184,000 barrels of natural gas liquids (NGLs) and 1.2 billion cubic
feet of natural gas.

Chevron divested its assets in the Eagle Ford Shale in Texas in March 2022.

In Colorado, development in the Denver-Julesburg (DJ) Basin is primarily
focused on Chevron's Mustang and Wells Ranch areas where the company's
comprehensive drilling plans allow for efficient resource development. In
2022, Chevron's net daily production in the DJ Basin averaged 53,000 barrels
of crude oil, 37,000 barrels of NGLs and 325 million cubic feet of natural
gas.

Chevron also has operations in Colorado's Piceance Basin, as well as an
acreage position in Wyoming.

In 2022, 53 wells in Texas and 29 wells in Colorado achieved Project Canary's
highest certification rating on operational and environmental performance,
allowing Chevron to market responsibly sourced natural gas.

In 2022, Chevron was one of the largest crude oil producers in California with
a net daily oil equivalent production of 87,800 barrels. The California
operations support Chevron's efforts to progress its lower carbon technologies
with investments in geothermal and carbon capture pilots. These include the
Baseload Capital pilot to utilize waste heat from existing oilfield operations
and the Svante pilot to capture carbon dioxide from combustion of natural gas.
These pilots leverage innovative technologies and have the potential to scale
across our operations. The Baseload Capital and Svante pilots became
operational in the third and fourth quarters of 2022, respectively.

During 2022, net daily production in the Gulf of Mexico averaged 172,000
barrels of crude oil, 12,000 barrels of NGLs and 101 million cubic feet of
natural gas. Chevron is engaged in various operated and nonoperated
exploration, development and production activities in the deepwater Gulf of
Mexico. Chevron also holds nonoperated interests in several shelf fields.

The deepwater Jack and St. Malo fields are being jointly developed with a host
floating production unit located between the two fields. Chevron has a 50
percent interest in the Jack Field and a 51 percent interest in the St. Malo
Field. Both fields are company operated. The company has a 40.6 percent
interest in the production host facility, which is designed to accommodate
production from the Jack/St. Malo development and third-party tiebacks.
Additional development opportunities for the Jack and St. Malo fields
progressed in 2022. The St. Malo Stage 4 waterflood project includes two new
production wells, three injector wells, and topsides water injection equipment
at the St. Malo Field. First water

10

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
injection is expected in 2024. Additional Jack development in 2022 consisted
of a single well tieback and related subsea infrastructure installation. The
Stage 4 multiphase subsea pump project replaces the single-phase subsea pumps
in both the Jack and St. Malo fields. Multiphase pump module installation
commenced in 2022. Proved reserves have been recognized for the multiphase
subsea pump project. The Jack and St. Malo fields have an estimated remaining
production life of more than 20 years.

The company has a 15.6 percent nonoperated working interest in the deepwater
Mad Dog Field. First oil from the Mad Dog 2 Project is expected to commence in
2023. Proved reserves have been recognized for the Mad Dog 2 Project.

Chevron has a 60 percent-owned and operated interest in the Big Foot project,
located in the deepwater Walker Ridge area. Development drilling activities
are ongoing, with an additional production well that came online in 2022. The
project has an estimated remaining production life of more than 30 years.

The company has a 58 percent-owned and operated interest in the deepwater
Tahiti Field. The Tahiti Field has an estimated remaining production life of
more than 20 years.

Chevron has a 25 percent nonoperated working interest in the Stampede Field,
which is located in the Green Canyon area. The Stampede Field has an estimated
remaining production life of 25 years.

Chevron has owned and operated interests of 62.9 to 75.4 percent in the unit
areas containing the Anchor field. Stage 1 of the Anchor development consists
of a seven-well subsea development and a semi-submersible floating production
unit. The company successfully drilled the first development well to a total
measured depth of 33,500 feet in 2022. Proved reserves have been recognized
for Anchor, with first production expected in 2024.

Chevron has a 60 percent-owned and operated interest in the Ballymore Field
located in the Mississippi Canyon, which is being developed as a subsea
tieback to the existing Blind Faith facility. Chevron reached a final
investment decision for Ballymore in May 2022. This project includes three
production wells, with first oil expected in 2025. Proved reserves have been
recognized for this project.

The company has a 40 percent nonoperated working interest in the Whale
discovery located in the Perdido area. First production is expected for Whale
in 2024 and proved reserves have been recognized for this project.

During 2022, the company participated in six exploration wells in the
deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Chevron was also formally awarded 34 leases
during 2022 as a result of U.S. Gulf of Mexico lease sale 257.

In May 2022, Chevron acquired a 50 percent interest in the Bayou Bend Carbon
Capture and Sequestration hub in the Gulf of Mexico, covering over 40,000
acres.

Other Americas

"Other Americas" includes Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Mexico,
Suriname and Venezuela. Acreage for "Other Americas" can be found in the
Acreage table. Net daily oil-equivalent production from these countries can be
found in the Net Production of Crude Oil, Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas
table.

Argentina Chevron has a 50 percent nonoperated interest in the Loma Campana
and Narambuena concessions in the Vaca Muerta Shale. At Loma Compana, 49
horizontal wells were drilled in 2022, with 46 wells in total put on
production. This concession expires in 2048, and the Narambuena concession
expires in 2027.

Chevron also owns and operates a 100 percent interest in the El Trapial Field
with both conventional waterflood and Vaca Muerta unconventional shale
production. The conventional field concession expires in 2032.

In April 2022, Chevron was granted a new unconventional concession where it
will operate the East area of the El Trapial Field in the Vaca Muerta shale
formation, with a three-year pilot where it is expected to drill and complete
five wells. Drilling operations began in August 2022 with three horizontal
wells drilled in 2022. The unconventional concession expires in 2057.

Brazil Chevron holds between 30 and 50 percent of both operated and
nonoperated interests in 11 blocks within the Campos and Santos Basins.
Chevron is in the process of relinquishing the Saturno block in the Santos
Basin, in which it holds a 45 percent nonoperated working interest. Chevron
participated in two exploration wells in 2022.

Canada Upstream interests in Canada are concentrated in Alberta and the
offshore Atlantic region of Newfoundland and Labrador. The company also has
interests in the Northeast British Columbia and the Beaufort Sea region of the
Northwest Territories.

11

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
The company has a 20 percent nonoperated working interest in the Athabasca Oil
Sands Project (AOSP) and associated Quest carbon capture and storage project
in Alberta. Oil sands are mined from both the Muskeg River and the Jackpine
mines, and bitumen is extracted from the oil sands and upgraded into synthetic
oil. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from the upgrader are reduced by carbon
capture and storage facilities.

Chevron has a 70 percent-owned and operated interest in most of its Duvernay
shale acreage. By the end of 2022, a total of 243 wells have been tied into
production facilities.

Chevron has a 26.9 percent nonoperated working interest in the Hibernia Field
and a 24.1 percent nonoperated working interest in the unitized Hibernia
Southern Extension areas offshore Atlantic Canada. The company has a 29.6
percent nonoperated working interest in the heavy oil Hebron Field, also
offshore Atlantic Canada, which has an expected remaining economic life of 25
years.

The company has a 25 percent nonoperated working interest in blocks EL 1168
and EL 1148 located in offshore Atlantic Canada.

Colombia Chevron has a 40 percent-owned and operated interest in the offshore
Colombia-3 and Guajira Offshore-3 Blocks.

Mexico The company has a 37.5 percent-owned and operated interest in Block 22
in the Cuenca Salina area in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The company also
holds a 40 percent nonoperated interest in Blocks 20, 21 and 23. Chevron
participated in one exploration well in 2022. Chevron, as operator of the
joint venture, is in the process of relinquishing Block 3 in the Perdido area
of the Gulf of Mexico, in which it holds a 33.3 percent-owned and operated
interest.

Suriname Chevron has a 40 percent owned and operated working interest in Block
5. Chevron also holds a 33.3 percent nonoperated working interest in deepwater
Block 42 where one exploration well was drilled during 2022. In April 2022,
Chevron signed a production sharing contract (PSC) for the shallow water Block
7 with an 80 percent owned and operated working interest.

Venezuela Chevron's interests in Venezuela are located in western Venezuela,
the Orinoco Belt and offshore Venezuela. As of December 31, 2022, no proved
reserves are recognized for these interests. In 2022, the company conducted
activities in Venezuela consistent with the authorization provided pursuant to
general licenses issued by the United States government. In November 2022, the
Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control issued a six-month
self-renewing general license authorizing the company to lift production from
its four nonoperated affiliate joint ventures in Venezuela for delivery to the
United States.

Chevron has a 39.2 percent interest in Petroboscan, which operates the Boscan
Field in western Venezuela under an agreement expiring in 2026. Chevron has a
30 percent interest in Petropiar, which operates the heavy oil Huyapari Field
under an agreement expiring in 2033. Chevron also holds a 25.2 percent
interest in Petroindependiente, which operates the LL-652 Field in Lake
Maracaibo under a contract expiring in 2026, and a 35.8 percent interest in
Petroindependencia, which includes the Carabobo 3 heavy oil project located in
three blocks in the Orinoco Belt. The Petroindependencia contract expires in
2035.

Chevron also operates and holds a 60 percent interest in the Loran gas field
offshore Venezuela. This is part of a cross- border field that includes the
Manatee field in Trinidad and Tobago. This license expires in 2039.

Africa

In Africa, the company is engaged in upstream activities in Angola, the
Republic of Congo, Cameroon, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Namibia and Nigeria.
Acreage for Africa can be found in the Acreage table. Net daily oil-equivalent
production from these countries can be found in the Net Production of Crude
Oil, Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas table.

Angola The company operates and holds a 39.2 percent interest in Block 0, a
concession adjacent to the Cabinda coastline. The Block 0 partners and
National Concessionaire signed an extension for an additional 20 years in
December 2021. This extension to 2050 is subject to legislative approvals.

Chevron also operates and holds a 31 percent interest in a PSC for deepwater
Block 14 which expires in 2028.

Chevron has a 36.4 percent interest in Angola LNG Limited, which operates an
onshore natural gas liquefaction plant in Soyo, Angola. The plant has the
capacity to process 1.1 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day. This is the
world's first liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant supplied with associated gas,
where the natural gas is a byproduct of crude oil production. Feedstock for
the plant originates from multiple fields and operators.

12

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
The Block 0 Sanha Lean Gas Connection Project (SLGC) execution continues and
is expected to be completed in 2024. SLGC is a new platform that ties the
existing complex to new connecting pipelines for gathering and exporting gas
from Blocks 0 and 14 to Angola LNG.

In October 2022, first oil was announced for Lifua A in Block 0, which is the
first stage of waterflood development in the Lifua field using a low-cost,
short cycle solution that leverages existing infrastructure. In November 2022,
South N'Dola, located in Area B of Block 0, reached final investment decision
and will apply the same low-cost, short cycle solution as Lifua A.

In July 2022, a final investment decision was announced on the Quiluma and
Maboqueiro (Q&M) development, part of the New Gas Consortium Project (NGC) in
which Chevron has a 31 percent nonoperated working interest. NGC is an
offshore gas concession in which the Q&M fields will be the first to be
developed. The Q&M scope includes two wellhead platforms and an onshore gas
treatment plant with connections to the Angola LNG plant. Proved reserves have
not been recognized for this project.

Angola-Republic of Congo Joint Development Area Chevron operates and holds a
31.3 percent interest in the Lianzi Unitization Zone, which is located in an
area shared equally by Angola and the Republic of Congo. This interest expires
in 2031.

Republic of Congo Chevron has a 31.5 percent nonoperated working interest in
the offshore Haute Mer permit area. The permits for Nkossa, Nsoko and Moho-
Bilondo were extended in 2022 and now expire in 2040. Reserves have been
recognized for the lease extension.

Cameroon Chevron owns and operates the YoYo Block in the Douala Basin.
Preliminary development plans include a possible joint development between
YoYo and the Yolanda field in Equatorial Guinea.

Egypt In the Mediterranean Sea, Chevron holds a 90 percent-owned and operated
interest in North Sidi Barrani (Block 2) and North El Dabaa (Block 4) and a 45
percent interest in the Nargis block, as well as a 27 percent nonoperated
working interest in both North Marina (Block 6) and North Cleopatra (Block 7).
In 2022, the company successfully drilled its first exploration well and
announced a significant gas discovery at the Nargis Offshore area. The well
encountered approximately 200 net feet of high-quality gas-bearing sandstone.
In the Red Sea, the company holds a 45 percent-owned and operated interest in
Block 1.

Equatorial Guinea Chevron has a 38 percent-owned and operated interest in the
Aseng oil field and the Yolanda natural gas field in Block I and a 45 percent-
owned and operated interest in the Alen natural gas and condensate field in
Block O. Chevron holds an 80 percent-owned and operated interest in Block
EG-09, offshore Equatorial Guinea, in the Douala Basin located south of the
Alen and Aseng fields.

The company also holds a 32 percent nonoperated interest in the natural gas
and condensate Alba field, a 28 percent nonoperated interest in the Alba LPG
Plant and a 45 percent interest in the Atlantic Methanol Production Company.

Namibia In September 2022, Chevron acquired an 80 percent-owned and operated
interest in PEL90 (Block 2813B) in the Orange Basin, offshore Namibia.

Nigeria Chevron operates and holds a 40 percent interest in six concessions,
five operated and one nonoperated in the onshore and near-offshore regions of
the Niger Delta. The company also holds acreage positions in three operated
and six nonoperated deepwater blocks, with working interests ranging from 20
to 100 percent. Chevron participated in one exploration well in 2022.

Chevron is the operator of the Escravos Gas Plant (EGP) with a total
processing capacity of 680 million cubic feet per day of natural gas and
liquefied petroleum gas and condensate export capacity of 58,000 barrels per
day. The company operates the 33,000-barrel-per-day Escravos Gas to Liquids
facility. In addition, the company holds a 36.9 percent interest in the West
African Gas Pipeline Company Limited affiliate, which supplies Nigerian
natural gas to customers in Benin, Togo and Ghana.

Chevron operates and holds a 67.3 percent interest in the Agbami field,
located in deepwater Oil Mining Lease (OML) 127 and OML 128. OML127 expires in
2024 and OML128 was extended in 2022 from 2024 to 2042. Additionally, Chevron
holds a 30 percent nonoperated working interest in the Usan field in OML 138.
The lease that contains the Usan field was extended in 2022 from 2023 to 2042.
Reserves have been recognized for the extensions of OML 128 and OML 138.

In deepwater exploration, Chevron operates and holds a 55 percent interest, in
the deepwater Nsiko discoveries in OML 140. Chevron also holds a 27 percent
interest in OML 139 and OML 154 and the company continues to work with the

13

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
operator to evaluate development options for the multiple discoveries in the
Usan area, including the Owowo field, which straddles OML 139 and OML 154. The
development plan for the Owowo field involves a subsea tie-back to the
existing Usan floating, production, storage, and offloading vessel.

Also, in the deepwater area, the Aparo field in OML 132 and OML 140 and the
third-party-owned Bonga SW field in OML 118 share a common geologic structure
and would be developed jointly. Chevron holds a 16.6 percent nonoperated
working interest in the unitized area. The development plan involves subsea
wells tied back to a floating production, storage and offloading vessel. At
the end of 2022, no proved reserves were recognized for this project.

In May 2022, Chevron divested its 40 percent operated interest in OML 86 and
OML 88.

Asia

In Asia, the company is engaged in upstream activities in Bangladesh, China,
Cyprus, Indonesia, Israel, Kazakhstan, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Myanmar, the
Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, Russia, and Thailand.
Acreage for Asia can be found in the Acreage table. Net daily oil-equivalent
production for these countries can be found in the Net Production of Crude
Oil, Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas table.

Bangladesh Chevron Bangladesh operates and holds 100 percent interest in Block
12 (Bibiyana field) and Blocks 13 and 14 (Jalalabad and Moulavi Bazar fields)
under two PSCs. The rights to produce from Jalalabad expires in 2034, from
Moulavi Bazar in 2038 and from Bibiyana in 2034. In October 2022, Chevron
Bangladesh signed a supplemental agreement to Block 12 PSC extending the
Bibiyana production area.

China Chevron has nonoperated working interests in several areas in China. The
company has a 49 percent nonoperated working interest in the Chuandongbei
project, including the Loujiazhai and Gunziping natural gas fields located
onshore in the Sichuan Basin. The company also has nonoperated working
interests of 32.7 percent in Block 16/19 in the Pearl River Mouth Basin and
24.5 percent in the Qinhuangdao (QHD) 32-6 Block in the Bohai Bay. The PSCs
for Block 16/19 and QHD 32-6 expire in 2028 and 2024, respectively.

Cyprus The company holds a 35 percent-owned and operated interest in the
Aphrodite gas field in Block 12. Chevron operates the field with the
government of Cyprus and has a license that expires in 2044.

Indonesia Chevron has working interests through various PSCs in Indonesia. In
offshore eastern Kalimantan, the company operates and holds a 62 percent
interest in two PSCs in the Kutei Basin (Rapak and Ganal) and operates and
holds a 72 percent interest in the Makassar Strait (West Seno field) temporary
cooperation contract. The contracts for offshore eastern Kalimantan expire in
December 2027 (Rapak and West Seno fields) and February 2028 (Ganal).

Chevron has concluded that the Indonesia Deepwater Development (IDD) Project
held by the Kutei Basin PSCs does not compete in its portfolio and is
evaluating alternatives for the company's participating interest in these
PSCs.

Israel Chevron holds a 39.7 percent-owned and operated interest in the
Leviathan field, which operates under a concession that expires in 2044. The
company also holds a 25 percent-owned and operated interest in the Tamar gas
field, which operates under a concession that expires in 2038. In 2022,
Chevron reached final investment decision for Phase 1 of the Tamar
Optimization Project to expand the company's offshore facilities.
Opportunities to further monetize the existing gas resources are being
assessed for both the Tamar and Leviathan fields.

Kazakhstan Chevron has a 50 percent interest in the Tengizchevroil (TCO)
affiliate and an 18 percent nonoperated working interest in the Karachaganak
field.

TCO is developing the Tengiz and Korolev crude oil fields in western
Kazakhstan under a concession agreement that expires in 2033. Most of TCO's
2022 crude oil production was exported through the Caspian Pipeline Consortium
(CPC) pipeline.

In 2022, construction on the Future Growth Project and Wellhead Pressure
Management Project (FGP/ WPMP) was largely completed. In addition, the FGP
well program, consisting of 55 new wells, was completed in July 2022. WPMP is
expected to begin start up by year-end 2023 with conversions of field
gathering stations to low pressure continuing for about 12 months. FGP is
expected to commence operations by mid-2024 with production expected to ramp
up through year end. Proved reserves have been recognized for the FGP/WPMP.

The Karachaganak field is located in northwest Kazakhstan, and operations are
conducted under a PSC that expires in 2038. Most of the exported liquids were
transported through the CPC pipeline during 2022. Development continued on the

14

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
Karachaganak Expansion project (KEP) Stage 1A and a final investment decision
was reached to commence KEP Stage 1B in late 2022. Proved reserves have been
recognized for both projects.

Kazakhstan/Russia Chevron has a 15 percent interest in the CPC. Progress
continued on the debottlenecking project, which is expected to further
increase capacity. During 2022, CPC transported an average of 1.2 million
barrels of crude oil per day, composed of 1.1 million barrels per day from
Kazakhstan and 0.1 million barrels per day from Russia.

Kurdistan Region of Iraq The company holds a 50 percent nonoperated working
interest in the Sarta PSC, which expires in 2047, and a 40 percent nonoperated
working interest in the Qara Dagh PSC. Chevron participated in two exploration
wells in 2022.

Myanmar Chevron has a 41.1 percent nonoperated working interest in a PSC for
the production of natural gas from the Yadana, Badamyar and Sein fields,
within Blocks M5 and M6, in the Andaman Sea. The PSC expires in 2028. The
company also has a 41.1 percent nonoperated working interest in a pipeline
company that transports natural gas to the Myanmar-Thailand border for
delivery to power plants in Thailand.

In 2022, Chevron signed an agreement to sell the company's interest in all
Myanmar assets and exit the country, with an expected closing date in the
second half of 2023.

Partitioned Zone Chevron holds a concession to operate the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia's 50 percent interest in the hydrocarbon resources in the onshore area
of the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. The concession
expires in 2046. Current activities focus on base business optimization and
production enhancement opportunities.

Thailand Chevron holds operated interests in the Pattani Basin, located in the
Gulf of Thailand, with ownership ranging from 35 percent to 71.2 percent.
Concessions for producing areas within this basin expire between 2028 and
2035. Chevron has a 35 percent-owned and operated interest in the Ubon project
in Block 12/27. Chevron also has a 16 percent nonoperated working interest in
the Arthit field located in the Malay Basin. Concessions for the producing
areas within this basin expire between 2036 and 2040.

Within the Pattani Basin, the company previously held operated interests
ranging from 70 to 80 percent of the Erawan concession, which expired in April
2022.

Chevron holds between 30 to 80 percent operated and nonoperated working
interests in the Thailand-Cambodia Overlapping Claims Area that are inactive,
pending resolution of border issues between Thailand and Cambodia.

Australia

Chevron is the largest producer of LNG in Australia. Acreage can be found in
the Acreage table. Net daily oil-equivalent production can be found in the Net
Production of Crude Oil, Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas table.

Upstream activities in Australia are concentrated offshore Western Australia,
where the company is the operator of two major LNG projects, Gorgon and
Wheatstone, and has a nonoperated working interest in the North West Shelf
(NWS) Venture and exploration acreage in the Carnarvon Basin.

Chevron holds a 47.3 percent-owned and operated interest in Gorgon on Barrow
Island, which includes the development of the Gorgon and Jansz-Io fields, a
three-train 15.6 million-metric-ton-per-year LNG facility, a carbon capture
and underground storage facility and a domestic gas plant. The Gorgon Stage 2
project is expected to be ready for startup in the first quarter of 2023.
Progress on the Jansz-Io Compression project continued during 2022, and proved
reserves have been recognized for this project. Gorgon's estimated remaining
economic life exceeds 40 years.

Chevron holds an 80.2 percent interest in the offshore licenses and a 64.1
percent-owned and operated interest in the LNG facilities associated with
Wheatstone. Wheatstone includes the development of the Wheatstone and Iago
fields, a two-train, 8.9 million-metric-ton-per-year LNG facility, and a
domestic gas plant. The onshore facilities are located at Ashburton North on
the coast of Western Australia. Wheatstone's estimated remaining economic life
exceeds 18 years.

Chevron has a 16.7 percent nonoperated working interest in the North West
Shelf (NWS) Venture in Western Australia. The company continues to evaluate
exploration and appraisal activity across the Carnarvon Basin, in which it
holds more than 1.9 million net acres. Chevron relinquished 4 million net
acres in 2022 in the Carnarvon basin.

Chevron owns and operates the Clio, Acme and Acme West fields. The company is
collaborating with other Carnarvon Basin participants to assess the
possibility of developing Clio and Acme through shared utilization of existing
infrastructure.

15

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
Chevron holds nonoperated working interests ranging from 20 to 50 percent, in
three greenhouse gas assessment permits to evaluate the potential of carbon
storage. The blocks, including two in the Carnarvon Basin off the north-
western coast of Western Australia and one in the Bonaparte Basin offshore
Northern Territory, total nearly 7.8 million acres.

United Kingdom

Acreage can be found in the Acreage table. Net oil equivalent production for
the United Kingdom can be found in the Net Production of Crude Oil, Natural
Gas Liquids and Natural Gas table.

Chevron holds a 19.4 percent nonoperated working interest in the Clair field,
located west of the Shetland Islands. The Clair Ridge project is the second
development phase of the Clair field, with a design capacity of 120,000
barrels of crude oil and 100 million cubic feet of natural gas per day. The
Clair field has an estimated remaining production life extending beyond 2050.

Sales of Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas

The company sells NGLs and natural gas from its producing operations under a
variety of contractual arrangements. In addition, the company also makes
third-party purchases and sales of NGLs and natural gas in connection with its
supply and trading activities.

U.S. and international sales of NGLs averaged 303,000 and 234,000 barrels per
day, respectively, in 2022.

During 2022, U.S. and international sales of natural gas averaged 4.4 billion
and 5.8 billion cubic feet per day, respectively, which includes the company's
share of equity affiliates' sales. Outside the United States, substantially
all of the natural gas sales from the company's producing interests are from
operations in Angola, Argentina, Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, Equatorial
Guinea, Kazakhstan, Indonesia, Israel, Nigeria and Thailand.

Refer to Selected Operating Data in Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further information on the
company's sales volumes of natural gas liquids and natural gas. Refer also to
Delivery Commitments for information related to the company's delivery
commitments for the sale of crude oil and natural gas.

Downstream

Refining Operations

At the end of 2022, the company had a refining network capable of processing
1.8 million barrels of crude oil per day. Operable capacity at December 31,
2022, and daily refinery inputs for 2020 through 2022 for the company and
affiliate refineries, are summarized in the table below. Average crude oil
distillation capacity utilization was 85 percent in 2022 and 82 percent in
2021.

At U.S. refineries, crude oil distillation capacity utilization averaged 82
percent in 2022, compared with 83 percent in 2021. Chevron processes both
imported and domestic crude oil in its U.S. refining operations. Imported
crude oil accounted for about 60 percent of Chevron's U.S. refinery inputs in
both 2022 and 2021.

In the United States, the company continued work on projects aimed at
improving refinery flexibility and reliability. The Pasadena Refinery received
regulatory approval for a project that is expected to increase light crude oil
throughput capacity to 125,000 barrels per day in 2024. This project is
expected to allow the company to run more equity crude from the Permian Basin,
supply more products to customers in the U.S. Gulf Coast and realize synergies
with the company's Pascagoula refinery.

Outside the United States, the company has interests in three large refineries
in Singapore, South Korea and Thailand. Singapore Refining Company (SRC), a 50
percent-owned joint venture, has a total capacity of 290,000 barrels of crude
per day and manufactures a wide range of petroleum products, including higher-
quality gasoline that meets stricter emission standards. The 50 percent-owned
GS Caltex (GSC) Yeosu Refinery in South Korea remains one of the world's
largest refineries with a total crude capacity of 800,000 barrels per day. The
company's 60.6 percent-owned refinery in Map Ta Phut, Thailand, continues to
supply high-quality petroleum products into regional markets.

16

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Petroleum Refineries: Locations, Capacities and Crude Oil Inputs

|  
Capacities and inputs in thousands of barrels per day| December 31, 2022|
Refinery Crude Oil Inputs|  
Locations | Number | Operable Capacity | 2022| 2021| 2020|  
Pascagoula| Mississippi| 1 | | 369 | | 320 | | 333 | | 305 | |  
El Segundo| California| 1 | | 290 | | 248 | | 233 | | 176 | |  
Richmond| California| 1 | | 257 | | 167 | | 211 | | 198 | |  
Pasadena| Texas| 1 | | 85 | | 77 | | 76 | | 69 | |  
Salt Lake City| Utah| 1 | | 58 | | 53 | | 50 | | 45 | |  
Total Consolidated Companies -- United States | 5 | | 1,059 | | 865 | | 903 |
| 793 | |  
Map Ta Phut| Thailand| 1 | | 175 | | 156 | | 135 | | 143 | |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
Total Consolidated Companies -- International | 1 | | 175 | | 156 | | 135 | |
143 | |  
Affiliates|

Various Locations1

| 2 | | 545 | | 483 | | 441 | | 441 | |  
Total Including Affiliates -- International | 3 | | 720 | | 639 | | 576 | |
584 | |  
Total Including Affiliates -- Worldwide | 8 | | 1,779 | | 1,504 | | 1,479 | |
1,377 | |  
  
1 In March 2020, the company sold its interest in the Pakistan refinery.

Marketing Operations

The company markets petroleum products under the principal brands of
"Chevron," "Texaco" and "Caltex" throughout many parts of the world. The
following table identifies the company's and its affiliates' refined products
sales volumes, excluding intercompany sales, for the three years ended
December 31, 2022.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Refined Products Sales Volumes

|  
Thousands of barrels per day| 2022| 2021| 2020|  
United States| | | |  
Gasoline| 639 | | 655| 581|  
Jet Fuel| 212 | | 173| 139|  
Diesel/Gas Oil| 216 | | 179| 167|  
Fuel Oil| 56 | | 39| 33|  
  
Other Petroleum Products1

| 105 | | 93| 83|  
Total United States| 1,228 | | 1,139 | | 1,003 | |  
  
International2

| | | |  
Gasoline| 336 | | 321| 264|  
Jet Fuel| 196 | | 140| 143|  
Diesel/Gas Oil| 464 | | 471| 438|  
Fuel Oil| 168 | | 177| 184|  
  
Other Petroleum Products1

| 222 | | 206| 192|  
Total International | 1,386 | | 1,315 | | 1,221 | |  
  
Total Worldwide2

| 2,614 | | 2,454 | | 2,224 | |  
  
1 Principally naphtha, lubricants, asphalt, and coke.

| |  
  
2 Includes share of affiliates' sales:

| 389 | | 357| 348|  
  
In the United States, the company markets under the Chevron and Texaco brands.
At year-end 2022, the company supplied directly or through retailers and
marketers approximately 8,200 Chevron- and Texaco-branded service stations,
primarily in the southern and western states. Approximately 310 of these
outlets are company-owned or -leased stations.

Outside the United States, Chevron supplied directly or through retailers and
marketers approximately 5,600 branded service stations, including affiliates.
The company markets in Latin America using the Texaco brand. In the Asia-
Pacific region and the Middle East, the company uses the Caltex brand. In
South Korea, the company operates through its 50 percent-owned affiliate, GSC.
In Australia, Chevron markets primarily under the Puma brand and began a
rebranding project to transition to the Caltex brand in 2022. In March 2022,
Chevron started allowing customers at Caltex service stations in Singapore to
use their loyalty points to offset a portion of the greenhouse gas emissions
from the combustion of the fuel purchased. In return, Chevron purchases and
retires carbon offsets.

Chevron markets commercial aviation fuel to 63 airports worldwide. The company
also markets an extensive line of lubricant and coolant products under the
product names Havoline, Delo, Ursa, Meropa, Rando, Clarity and Taro in the
United States and worldwide under these three brands: Chevron, Texaco and
Caltex.

17

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
Chemicals Operations

Chevron Oronite Company develops, manufactures and markets performance
additives for lubricating oils and fuels and conducts research and development
for additive component and blended packages. At the end of 2022, the company
manufactured, blended or conducted research at 11 locations around the world.

Chevron owns a 50 percent interest in Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC
(CPChem). CPChem produces olefins, polyolefins and alpha olefins and is a
supplier of aromatics and polyethylene pipe, in addition to participating in
the specialty chemical and specialty plastics markets. At the end of 2022,
CPChem owned or had joint-venture interests in 28 manufacturing facilities and
two research and development centers around the world.

CPChem has recently reached final investment decision on two major integrated
polymer projects. In fourth quarter 2022, final investment decision was made
on the Golden Triangle Polymers Project in Orange, Texas, for which CPChem
holds a 51 percent owned and operated interest. In January 2023, final
investment decision was made on the Ras Laffan Petrochemical Project in Ras
Laffan, Qatar for which CPChem holds a 30 percent nonoperated working
interest. Startup for both projects is targeted for late 2026.

In second quarter 2022 CPChem reached final investment decision on a Low
Viscosity Poly Alpha Olefin Expansion Project at the CPChem Beringen, Belgium
site, with a targeted startup in third quarter 2024. CPChem also continued to
progress several other major projects at existing facilities in the U.S. Gulf
Coast region, including: an Ethylene Plant Debottleneck Project in Cedar
Bayou, Texas, a C3 Splitter Project in Cedar Bayou, Texas, and a 1-Hexene
plant in Old Ocean, Texas, all of which are targeted to startup in late 2023.

Chevron is also involved in the petrochemical business through the operations
of GSC, the company's 50 percent owned affiliate in South Korea. GSC
manufactures aromatics, including benzene, toluene and xylene. These base
chemicals are used to produce a range of products, including adhesives,
plastics and textile fibers. GSC also produces olefins such as ethylene,
polyethylene and polypropylene, which are used to make automotive and home
appliance parts, food packaging, laboratory equipment, building materials,
adhesives, paint and textiles.

Renewable Fuels

The company continued to advance development of renewable fuels, which include
renewable natural gas (RNG), renewable diesel, biodiesel, sustainable aviation
fuel, and renewable base oils and lubricants.

The company continued to advance activities with its joint venture partners,
Brightmark Fund Holdings LLC (Brightmark) and California Bioenergy, LLC.
(CalBio), to produce and market dairy biomethane. In January 2022, Chevron's
joint venture with Brightmark announced plans to construct an anaerobic
digestion project in California and in August 2022 it achieved first gas from
the Athena Project in South Dakota. In October 2022, the company expanded its
partnership with CalBio to build additional infrastructure for dairy
biomethane projects in California. In December 2022, Chevron acquired full
ownership of Beyond6, LLC and its nationwide network of 55 compressed natural
gas (CNG) stations to grow its renewable natural gas value chain.

In May 2022, Chevron formed a joint venture, Bunge Chevron Ag Renewables LLC,
in which it holds a 50 percent working interest. The venture produces soybean
oil from processing facilities in Destrehan, Louisiana, and Cairo, Illinois.
Soybean oil can be used as a renewable feedstock to make renewable diesel,
biodiesel, and sustainable aviation fuel.

In June 2022, Chevron completed the acquisition of the Renewable Energy Group,
Inc. (REG), which has 11 biofuel refineries located in the U.S. and Germany,
10 biofuel refineries producing biodiesel and one producing renewable diesel.
Work commenced in August 2022 at the Emden refinery in Germany that is
expected to reduce the carbon intensity of the biofuel produced at the
facility. Expansion work at the Geismar renewable diesel plant in Louisiana
continues to be on track, with full capacity expected in 2024.

Progress continues at the company's El Segundo Refinery in California to
increase its capacity to produce renewable fuels through fluid catalytic
cracking unit co-processing of bio-feedstock and conversion of the diesel
hydrotreater.

Chevron developed renewable base oil through our patented technology and
partnership with Novvi and integrated this renewable base oil into Chevron's
lubricant product lines. Chevron developed Havoline(C) PRO-RS™, which has
lifecycle emissions that are 35 percent lower than those of conventional motor
oil of equal viscosity. During 2022, the company made this renewable based
lubricant available to U.S. consumers.

18

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
In April 2022, Chevron completed the purchase of the NEXBASE brand, associated
qualifications and approvals, and related sales and marketing business from
Neste Oyj. As part of the acquisition, Chevron maintains all current supply
sources utilizing long-term offtake agreements. This addition of a fully
approved global slate of Group III and renewable base oils complements
Chevron's Group II global slate.

Transportation

Pipelines Chevron owns and operates a network of crude oil, natural gas and
product pipelines and other infrastructure assets in the United States. In
addition, Chevron operates pipelines for its 50 percent-owned CPChem
affiliate. The company also has direct and indirect interests in other U.S.
and international pipelines.

Refer to Nigeria and Kazakhstan/Russia in the Upstream section for information
on the West African Gas Pipeline and the Caspian Pipeline Consortium.

Shipping The company's marine fleet includes both U.S. and foreign flagged
vessels. The operated fleet consists of conventional crude tankers, product
carriers and LNG carriers. These vessels transport crude oil, LNG, refined
products and feedstock in support of the company's global upstream and
downstream businesses. In April 2022, Chevron joined the Global Centre for
Maritime Decarbonisation (GCMD) as a strategic partner to the organization.
The Singapore-based nonprofit was launched in August 2021 to help the
International Maritime Organization meet its greenhouse gas emissions
reduction goals for 2030 and 2050 by supporting cross-industry collaboration.

Other Businesses

Chevron Technical Center The company's technical center develops and applies
innovative technologies and digital solutions to support the current and
future energy system.

The organization conducts research, develops and qualifies technology, and
provides technical services and competency development. Areas of expertise
include earth sciences, reservoir and production engineering, facilities
engineering, reserve governance and reporting, capital projects, drilling and
completions, asset performance, health, safety and environment, information
technology, technology ventures, and downstream technology and services.

Chevron's information technology organization integrates computing,
telecommunications, data management, cybersecurity and network technology to
provide a digital infrastructure to enable Chevron's global operations and
business processes.

The Chevron Technology Ventures (CTV) unit identifies and invests in
externally developed technologies and new business solutions with the
potential to enhance the way Chevron produces and delivers affordable,
reliable, and ever-cleaner energy. CTV has more than two decades of being the
on-ramp for external innovation into Chevron, including venture investing,
with eight funds that have supported more than 120 startups and worked with
more than 250 co-investors.

In addition to the company's own managed funds, Chevron also makes investments
indirectly through the following funds: the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative
(OGCI) Climate Investments' Catalyst Fund I, which targets decarbonization
within the oil and gas, industrial, built environments and commercial
transportation sectors; Emerald funds, one of which targets energy, water,
food, mobility, industrial IT and advanced materials and another that focuses
on sustainable packaging; Carbon Direct Capital, a growth equity investor in
carbon management technologies; and the HX Venture Fund that targets Houston,
Texas high-growth start-up companies.

Some of the investments the company makes in the areas described above are in
new or unproven technologies and business processes; therefore, the ultimate
technical or commercial successes of these investments are not certain. Refer
to Note 27 Other Financial Information for quantification of the company's
research and development expenses.

Chevron New Energies The new energies organization is designed to advance the
company's strategy by bringing together dedicated resources focused on
developing new lower carbon businesses that have the potential to scale. Its
initial focus includes commercialization opportunities in hydrogen, carbon
capture and storage, carbon offsets and emerging technologies such as
geothermal. These businesses are expected to support the company's efforts to
reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and are also expected to become high-
growth opportunities with the potential to generate competitive returns.

19

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
Environmental Protection The company designs, operates and maintains its
facilities to avoid potential spills or leaks and to minimize the impact of
those that may occur. Chevron requires its facilities and operations to have
operating standards and processes and emergency response plans that address
significant risks identified through site-specific risk and impact
assessments. Chevron also requires that sufficient resources be available to
execute these plans. In the unlikely event that a major spill or leak occurs,
Chevron also maintains a Worldwide Emergency Response Team comprised of
employees who are trained in various aspects of emergency response, including
post-incident remediation.

To complement the company's capabilities, Chevron maintains active membership
in international oil spill response cooperatives, including the Marine Spill
Response Corporation, which operates in U.S. territorial waters, and Oil Spill
Response, Ltd., which operates globally. The company is a founding member of
the Marine Well Containment Company, whose primary mission is to expediently
deploy containment equipment and systems to capture and contain crude oil in
the unlikely event of a future loss of control of a deepwater well in the Gulf
of Mexico. In addition, the company is a member of the Subsea Well Response
Project, which has the objective to further develop the industry's capability
to contain and shut in subsea well control incidents in different regions of
the world.

The company aims to lower the carbon intensity of its traditional oil and gas
operations and comply with the greenhouse gas-related laws and regulations to
which it is subject. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors on pages 20 through 26 for
further discussion of greenhouse gas regulation and climate change and the
associated risks to Chevron's business. Refer to Management Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations Business
Environment and Outlook on pages 32 through 34 for further discussion of
climate change related trends and uncertainties.

Refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and
Results of Operations on page 51 for additional information on environmental
matters and their impact on Chevron, and on the company's 2022 environmental
expenditures. Refer to page 51 and Note 24 Other Contingencies and Commitments
for a discussion of environmental remediation provisions and year-end
reserves.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

As a global energy company, Chevron is subject to a variety of risks that
could materially impact the company's results of operations and financial
condition.

BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL RISK FACTORS

Chevron is exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices Chevron is
primarily in a commodities business that has a history of price volatility.
The most significant factor that affects the company's results of operations
is the price of crude oil, which can be influenced by general economic
conditions and level of economic growth, including low or negative growth;
industry production and inventory levels; technology advancements, including
those in pursuit of a lower carbon economy; production quotas or other actions
that might be imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries or
other producers; weather-related damage and disruptions due to other natural
or human causes beyond our control (including without limitation due to the
COVID-19 pandemic); competing fuel prices; geopolitical risks; the pace of
energy transition; customer and consumer preferences and the use of
substitutes; and governmental regulations, policies and other actions
regarding the development of oil and gas reserves, as well as greenhouse gas
emissions and climate change. Chevron evaluates the risk of changing commodity
prices as a core part of its business planning process. An investment in the
company carries significant exposure to fluctuations in global crude oil
prices.

Extended periods of low prices for crude oil can have a material adverse
impact on the company's results of operations, financial condition and
liquidity. Among other things, the company's upstream earnings, cash flows,
and capital expenditure programs could be negatively affected, as could its
production and proved reserves. Upstream assets may also become impaired.
Downstream earnings could be negatively affected because they depend upon the
supply and demand for refined products and the associated margins on refined
product sales. A significant or sustained decline in liquidity could adversely
affect the company's credit ratings, potentially increase financing costs and
reduce access to capital markets. The company may be unable to realize
anticipated cost savings, expenditure reductions and asset sales that are
intended to compensate for such downturns, and such downturns may also slow
the pace and scale at which we are able to invest in new business lines such
as the lower carbon businesses associated with our Chevron New Energies
organization. In some cases, liabilities associated with divested assets may
return to the company when an acquirer of those assets subsequently declares
bankruptcy. In addition, extended periods of low commodity prices can have a
material adverse impact on the results of operations, financial condition and
liquidity of the company's suppliers, vendors, partners and equity affiliates
upon which the company's own results of operations and financial condition
depends.

20

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
The scope of Chevron's business will decline if the company does not
successfully develop resources The company is in an extractive business;
therefore, if it is not successful in replacing the crude oil and natural gas
it produces with good prospects for future organic opportunities or through
acquisitions, the company's business will decline. Creating and maintaining an
inventory of projects depends on many factors, including obtaining and
renewing rights to explore, develop and produce hydrocarbons; drilling
success; reservoir optimization; ability to bring long-lead-time, capital-
intensive projects to completion on budget and on schedule; partner alignment,
including strategic support; and efficient and profitable operation of mature
properties.

The company's operations could be disrupted by natural or human causes beyond
its control Chevron operates in both urban areas and remote and sometimes
inhospitable regions. The company's operations are therefore subject to
disruption from natural or human causes beyond its control, including risks
from hurricanes, severe storms, floods, heat waves, other forms of severe
weather, wildfires, ambient temperature increases, sea level rise, war or
other military conflicts such as the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, accidents,
civil unrest, political events, fires, earthquakes, system failures, cyber
threats, terrorist acts and epidemic or pandemic diseases such as the COVID-19
pandemic, some of which may be impacted by climate change and any of which
could result in suspension of operations or harm to people or the natural
environment.

Chevron's risk management systems are designed to assess potential physical
and other risks to its operations and assets and to plan for their resiliency.
While capital investment reviews and decisions incorporate potential ranges of
physical risks such as storm severity and frequency, sea level rise, air and
water temperature, precipitation, fresh water access, wind speed, and
earthquake severity, among other factors, it is difficult to predict with
certainty the timing, frequency or severity of such events, any of which could
have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations or
financial condition.

Impacts of the continuation or further resurgences of the COVID-19 pandemic
may have an adverse and potentially material adverse effect on Chevron's
financial and operating results The economic, business, and oil and gas
industry impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic and the disruption to capital
markets have been far reaching. While the oil and gas industry has witnessed a
substantial recovery of commodity prices and demand for products, there
continues to be uncertainty and unpredictability about the impact of the
COVID-19 pandemic on our financial and operating results in future periods.
The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacts our future
financial and operating results, and for what duration and magnitude, depends
on several factors that are continuing to evolve, are difficult to predict
and, in many instances, are beyond the company's control. Such factors include
the duration and scope of the pandemic, including any further resurgences of
the COVID-19 virus and its variants, and the impact on our workforce and
operations; the negative impact of the pandemic on the economy and economic
activity, including travel restrictions and prolonged low demand for our
products; the ability of our affiliates, suppliers and partners to
successfully navigate the impacts of the pandemic; the actions taken by
governments, businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic; the
actions of OPEC and other countries that otherwise impact supply and demand
and, correspondingly, commodity prices; the extent and duration of recovery of
economies and demand for our products after the pandemic subsides; and
Chevron's ability to keep its cost model in line with changing demand for our
products. In-country conditions, including potential future waves of the
COVID-19 virus and its variants in countries that appear to have reduced their
infection rates, could impact logistics and material movement and remain a
risk to business continuity.

In light of the significant uncertainty around the duration and extent of the
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, management is currently unable to develop
with any level of confidence estimates and assumptions that may have a
material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements and
financial or operational performance in any given period. In addition, the
unprecedented nature of such market conditions could cause current management
estimates and assumptions to be challenged in hindsight.

In addition, further resurgences of the pandemic could precipitate or
aggravate the other risk factors identified in this Form 10-K, which in turn
could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition,
liquidity, results of operations and profitability, including in ways not
currently known or considered by us to present significant risks.

Cyberattacks targeting Chevron's process control networks or other digital
infrastructure could have a material adverse impact on the company's business
and results of operations There are numerous and evolving risks to Chevron's
cybersecurity and privacy from cyber threat actors, including criminal
hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage and employee
malfeasance. These cyber threat actors, whether internal or external to
Chevron, are becoming more sophisticated and coordinated in their attempts to
access the company's information technology (IT) systems and data, including
the IT systems of cloud providers and other third parties with whom the
company conducts business

21

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
through, without limitation, malicious software; data privacy breaches by
employees, insiders or others with authorized access; cyber or phishing-
attacks; ransomware; attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and
systems; and other electronic security breaches. Although Chevron devotes
significant resources to prevent unwanted intrusions and to protect its
systems and data, whether such data is housed internally or by external third
parties, the company has experienced and will continue to experience cyber
incidents of varying degrees in the conduct of its business. Cyber threat
actors could compromise the company's process control networks or other
critical systems and infrastructure, resulting in disruptions to its business
operations, injury to people, harm to the environment or its assets,
disruptions in access to its financial reporting systems, or loss, misuse or
corruption of its critical data and proprietary information, including without
limitation its intellectual property and business information and that of its
employees, customers, partners and other third parties. Any of the foregoing
can be exacerbated by a delay or failure to detect a cyber incident or the
full extent of such incident. Further, the company has exposure to cyber
incidents and the negative impacts of such incidents related to its critical
data and proprietary information housed on third-party IT systems, including
the cloud. Additionally, authorized third-party IT systems or software can be
compromised and used to gain access or introduce malware to Chevron's IT
systems that can materially impact the company's business. Regardless of the
precise method or form, cyber events could result in significant financial
losses, legal or regulatory violations, reputational harm, and legal liability
and could ultimately have a material adverse effect on the company's business
and results of operations.

The company's operations have inherent risks and hazards that require
significant and continuous oversight Chevron's results depend on its ability
to identify and mitigate the risks and hazards inherent to operating in the
energy industry. The company seeks to minimize these operational risks by
carefully designing and building its facilities and conducting its operations
in a safe and reliable manner. However, failure to manage these risks
effectively could impair our ability to operate and result in unexpected
incidents, including releases, explosions or mechanical failures resulting in
personal injury, loss of life, environmental damage, loss of revenues, legal
liability and/or disruption to operations. Chevron has implemented and
maintains a system of corporate policies, processes and systems, behaviors and
compliance mechanisms to manage safety, health, environmental, reliability and
efficiency risks; to verify compliance with applicable laws and policies; and
to respond to and learn from unexpected incidents. In certain situations where
Chevron is not the operator, the company may have limited influence and
control over third parties, which may limit its ability to manage and control
such risks.

The company does not insure against all potential losses, which could result
in significant financial exposure The company does not have commercial
insurance or third-party indemnities to fully cover all operational risks or
potential liability in the event of a significant incident or series of
incidents causing catastrophic loss. As a result, the company is, to a
substantial extent, self-insured for such events. The company relies on
existing liquidity, financial resources and borrowing capacity to meet short-
term obligations that would arise from such an event or series of events. The
occurrence of a significant incident, series of events, or unforeseen
liability for which the company is self-insured, not fully insured or for
which insurance recovery is significantly delayed could have a material
adverse effect on the company's results of operations or financial condition.

LEGAL, REGULATORY AND ESG-RELATED RISK FACTORS

Chevron's business subjects the company to liability risks from litigation or
government action The company produces, transports, refines and markets
potentially hazardous materials, and it purchases, handles and disposes of
other potentially hazardous materials in the course of its business. Chevron's
operations also produce byproducts, which may be considered pollutants. Often
these operations are conducted through joint ventures over which the company
may have limited influence and control. Any of these activities could result
in liability or significant delays in operations arising from private
litigation or government action. For example, liability or delays could result
from an accidental, unlawful discharge or from new conclusions about the
effects of the company's operations on human health or the environment. In
addition, to the extent that societal pressures or political or other factors
are involved, it is possible that such liability could be imposed without
regard to the company's causation of or contribution to the asserted damage,
or to other mitigating factors.

For information concerning some of the litigation in which the company is
involved, see Note 16 Litigation.

Political instability and significant changes in the legal and regulatory
environment could harm Chevron's business The company's operations,
particularly exploration and production, can be affected by changing
political, regulatory and economic environments in the various countries in
which it operates. As has occurred in the past, actions could be taken by
governments to increase public ownership of the company's partially or wholly
owned businesses, to force contract renegotiations, or to impose additional
taxes or royalties. In certain locations, governments have proposed or imposed

22

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
restrictions on the company's operations, trade, currency exchange controls,
burdensome taxes, and public disclosure requirements that might harm the
company's competitiveness or relations with other governments or third
parties. In other countries, political conditions have existed that may
threaten the safety of employees and the company's continued presence in those
countries, and internal unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between
a government and the company or other governments may adversely affect the
company's operations. Those developments have, at times, significantly
affected the company's operations and results and are carefully considered by
management when evaluating the level of current and future activity in such
countries. Further, Chevron is required to comply with sanctions and other
trade laws and regulations of the United States and other jurisdictions where
we operate which, depending upon their scope, could adversely impact the
company's operations and financial results in certain countries. In addition,
litigation or changes in national, state or local environmental regulations or
laws, including those designed to stop or impede the development or production
of oil and gas, such as those related to the use of hydraulic fracturing or
bans on drilling, or any law or regulation that impacts the demand for our
products, could adversely affect the company's current or anticipated future
operations and profitability.

Legislative or regulatory changes in tax laws may expose Chevron to additional
tax liabilities Changes in tax laws and regulations around the world are
regularly enacted due to political or economic factors beyond the company's
control. Chevron's taxes in the jurisdictions where the company conducts
business activities have been and may be adversely affected by changes in tax
laws or regulations, including but not limited to, substantive changes in,
reductions in, or the repeal or expiration of tax incentives, such as U.S.
federal tax incentives for biodiesel blending, which expire in 2024.
Furthermore, Chevron's tax returns are subject to audit by taxing authorities
around the world. There is no assurance that taxing authorities or courts will
agree with the positions that Chevron has reflected on the company's tax
returns, in which case interest and penalties could be imposed that may have a
material adverse effect on the company's results of operations or financial
condition.

During periods of high profitability for certain companies or industries,
there are often calls for increased taxes on profits, often called "windfall
profit" taxes. Governments in various jurisdictions, including California and
Australia, have announced, proposed, or implemented windfall profit taxes for
companies operating in the energy and oil and gas sectors. Such taxes may be
imposed on us or may be increased in the future in these or other
jurisdictions. The imposition of, or increase in, such windfall profit taxes
could adversely affect the company's current or anticipated future operations
and profitability.

For information concerning the company's tax liabilities, see Note 17 Taxes
and Note 24 Other Contingencies and Commitments.

Legislation, regulation, and other government actions and shifting customer
and consumer preferences and other private efforts related to greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions and climate change could continue to increase Chevron's
operational costs and reduce demand for Chevron's hydrocarbon and other
products, resulting in a material adverse effect on the company's results of
operations and financial condition Chevron has experienced and may be further
challenged by increases in the impacts of international and domestic
legislation, regulation, or other government actions relating to GHG emissions
(e.g., carbon dioxide and methane) and climate change. International
agreements and national, regional, and state legislation and regulatory
measures that aim to directly or indirectly limit or reduce GHG emissions are
in various stages of implementation.

Legislation, regulation, and other government actions related to GHG emissions
and climate change could reduce demand for Chevron's hydrocarbon and other
products and/or continue to increase Chevron's operational costs. The Paris
Agreement went into effect in November 2016, and a number of countries in
which we operate may adopt additional policies to meet their Paris Agreement
goals. Globally, multiple jurisdictions are considering adopting or are in the
process of implementing laws or regulations to directly regulate GHG emissions
through similar or other mechanisms, such as a carbon tax, a cap-and-trade
program, or performance standards, or to indirectly advance reduction of GHG
emissions through restrictive permitting, trade tariffs, minimum renewable
usage requirements, increased GHG reporting and climate-related disclosure
requirements, or tax advantages or other incentives to promote the use of
alternative energy, fuel sources or lower-carbon technologies. For example,
the company is currently subject to implemented programs in certain
jurisdictions, such as the Renewable Fuel Standard program in the U.S.,
California's Cap-and-Trade Program and Low Carbon Fuel Standard, and newly
approved mandates such as the California Air Resources Board Advanced Clean
Cars II regulations, as well as other indirect regulation of GHG emissions,
which may, among other things, ban or restrict technologies or products that
use the company's hydrocarbon products. GHG emissions that may be directly
regulated through such efforts include, among others, those associated with
the company's exploration and production of

23

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
hydrocarbons; the upgrading of production from oil sands into synthetic oil;
power generation; the conversion of crude oil and natural gas into refined
hydrocarbon products; the processing, liquefaction, and regasification of
natural gas; the transportation of crude oil, natural gas, and related
products; and customers' and consumers' use of the company's hydrocarbon
products. In addition, the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) implements
various incentives for lower carbon activities, including carbon capture and
storage and the production of hydrogen and sustainable aviation fuel. Although
the IRA offers incentives that could support certain lower carbon lines of
business, those same incentives could negatively impact demand for our
traditional base business of oil and gas products in the future or any
existing or future lower carbon business lines. Many of these actions, as well
as customers' and consumers' preferences and use of the company's products or
substitute products, and actions taken by the company's competitors in
response to legislation and regulations, are beyond the company's control.

Similar to any significant changes in the regulatory environment, climate
change-related legislation, regulation, or other government actions may
curtail profitability in the oil and gas sector or render the extraction of
the company's hydrocarbon resources economically infeasible. In particular,
GHG emissions-related legislation, regulations, and other government actions
and shifting customer and consumer preferences and other private efforts aimed
at reducing GHG emissions may result in increased and substantial capital,
compliance, operating, and maintenance costs and could, among other things,
reduce demand for hydrocarbons and the company's hydrocarbon-based products;
increase demand for lower carbon products and alternative energy sources; make
the company's products more expensive; adversely affect the economic
feasibility of the company's resources; impact or limit our business plans;
and adversely affect the company's sales volumes, revenues, margins and
reputation. For example, some jurisdictions are in various stages of design,
adoption, and implementation of policies and programs that cap emissions
and/or require short-, medium-, and long-term GHG reductions by operators at
the asset or facility level, which may not be technologically feasible, or
which could require significant capital expenditure, increase costs of or
limit production and limit Chevron's ability to cost-effectively reduce GHG
emissions across its global portfolio.

The ultimate effect of international agreements; national, regional, and state
legislation and regulation; and government and private actions related to GHG
emissions and climate change on the company's financial performance, and the
timing of these effects, will depend on a number of factors. Such factors
include, among others, the sectors covered, the GHG emissions reductions
required, the extent to which Chevron would be entitled to receive emission
allowance allocations or would need to purchase compliance instruments on the
open market or through auctions, the price and availability of emission
allowances and credits and the extent to which the company is able to recover,
or continue to recover, the costs incurred through the pricing of the
company's products in the competitive marketplace. Further, the ultimate
impact of GHG emissions and climate change-related agreements, legislation,
regulation, and government actions on the company's financial performance is
highly uncertain because the company is unable to predict with certainty, for
a multitude of individual jurisdictions, the outcome of political decision-
making processes, including the actual laws and regulations enacted, the
variables and tradeoffs that inevitably occur in connection with such
processes, and market conditions.

Increasing attention to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) matters
may impact our business Increasing attention to ESG matters, including those
related to climate change and sustainability, increasing societal, investor
and legislative pressure on companies to address ESG matters, and potential
customer and consumer use of substitutes to Chevron's products may result in
changes to the portfolio of company activities, increased costs, reduced
demand for our products, reduced profits, increased investigations and
litigation or threats thereof, negative impacts on our stock price and access
to capital markets, and damage to our reputation. Increasing attention to
climate change, for example, may result in demand shifts for our hydrocarbon
products and additional governmental investigations and private litigation, or
threats thereof, against the company. For instance, we have received
investigative requests and demands from the U.S. Congress for information
relating to climate change, methane leak detection and repair, and other
topics, and further requests and/or demands are possible. At this time,
Chevron cannot predict the ultimate impact any Congressional or other
investigations may have on the company.

Some stakeholders, including but not limited to sovereign wealth, pension, and
endowment funds, have been divesting and promoting divestment of or screening
out of fossil fuel equities and urging lenders to limit funding to companies
engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. Further, voluntary carbon-
related and target-setting frameworks have developed, and continue to develop,
that limit the ability of certain sectors, including the oil and gas sector,
from participating, and may result in exclusion of the company's equity from
being included as an investment option in portfolios. In addition, some
stakeholders, including some of our investors, have divergent views on our
ESG-related strategies and priorities, vis-a-vis our traditional and lower
carbon lines of business, calling for focus on increased production of oil and
gas products

24

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
rather than new business lines and climate-related targets. These
circumstances, among others, may result in pressure from activists on
production; unfavorable reputational impacts, including inaccurate perceptions
or a misrepresentation of our actual ESG policies and practices; diversion of
management's attention and resources; and proxy fights, among other material
adverse impacts on our businesses.

In addition, organizations that provide information to investors on corporate
governance and related matters have developed ratings processes for evaluating
companies on their approach to ESG matters, including climate change and
climate-related risks (including entities commonly referred to as "raters and
rankers"). Such ratings are used by some investors to inform their investment
and voting decisions. Unfavorable ESG ratings and investment community
divestment initiatives, among other actions, may lead to negative investor
sentiment toward Chevron and to the diversion of investment to other
industries, which could have a negative impact on our stock price and our
access to and costs of capital. Additionally, evolving expectations on various
ESG matters, including biodiversity, waste and water, may increase costs,
require changes in how we operate and lead to negative stakeholder sentiment.

Our aspirations, targets and disclosures related to ESG matters subject us to
numerous risks that may negatively impact our reputation and stock price or
result in other material adverse impacts to the company Chevron has announced
an aspiration to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions in upstream by 2050.
The company also has set nearer-term GHG emission-related targets for zero
routine flaring, upstream carbon intensity, and portfolio carbon intensity.
These and other aspirations, targets or objectives reflect our current plans
and aspirations and are not guarantees that we will achieve them, particularly
as we encounter new opportunities and/or limitations as our portfolio and
market conditions evolve.

Our ability to achieve any aspiration, target or objective, including with
respect to climate-related initiatives, our new lower carbon strategy outlined
in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations, pages 32 through 34, and any lower carbon new energy
businesses, is subject to numerous risks, many of which are outside of our
control. Examples of such risks include: (1) the continuing progress of
commercially viable technologies and low- or non-carbon-based energy sources;
(2) the granting of necessary permits by governing authorities; (3) the
availability and acceptability of cost-effective, verifiable carbon credits;
(4) the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainability and other
standards; (5) evolving regulatory requirements affecting ESG standards or
disclosures; (6) evolving standards for tracking and reporting on emissions
and emission reductions and removals; (7) customers' and consumers'
preferences and use of the company's products or substitute products; and (8)
actions taken by the company's competitors in response to legislation and
regulations.

The standards for tracking and reporting on ESG matters are relatively new,
have not been harmonized and continue to evolve. Our selection of disclosure
frameworks that seek to align with various voluntary reporting standards may
change from time to time and may result in a lack of comparative data from
period to period. In addition, our processes and controls may not always align
with evolving voluntary standards for identifying, measuring, and reporting
ESG metrics, our interpretation of reporting standards may differ from those
of others, and such standards may change over time, any of which could result
in significant revisions to our goals or reported progress in achieving such
goals. Achievement of or efforts to achieve aspirations, targets, goals and
objectives such as the foregoing and future internal climate-related
initiatives may increase costs, require purchase of carbon credits, or limit
or impact the company's business plans, operations and financial results,
potentially resulting in the reduction to the economic end-of-life of certain
assets, an impairment of the associated net book value, among other material
adverse impacts. Our failure or perceived failure to pursue or fulfill such
aspirations, targets, goals and objectives or to satisfy various reporting
standards within the timelines we announce, or at all, could have a negative
impact on the company's reputation, investor sentiment, ratings outcomes for
evaluating the company's approach to ESG matters, stock price, and cost of
capital and expose us to government enforcement actions and private
litigation, among other material adverse impacts.

GENERAL RISK FACTORS

Changes in management's estimates and assumptions may have a material impact
on the company's consolidated financial statements and financial or
operational performance in any given period In preparing the company's
periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including its
financial statements, Chevron's management is required under applicable rules
and regulations to make estimates and assumptions as of a specified date.
These estimates and assumptions are based on management's best estimates and
experience as of that date and are subject to substantial risk and
uncertainty. Materially different results may occur as circumstances change
and additional information becomes known. Areas requiring significant
estimates and assumptions by management include impairments to property, plant
and equipment and investments in affiliates; estimates of crude oil and
natural gas recoverable reserves; accruals for estimated

25

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
liabilities, including litigation reserves; and measurement of benefit
obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Changes in
estimates or assumptions or the information underlying the assumptions, such
as changes in the company's business plans, general market conditions, the
pace of energy transition, or changes in the company's outlook on commodity
prices, could affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities or expenses.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties

The location and character of the company's crude oil and natural gas
properties and its refining, marketing, transportation, and chemicals
facilities are described beginning on page 3 under Item 1\. Business.
Information required by Subpart 1200 of Regulation S-K ("Disclosure by
Registrants Engaged in Oil and Gas Producing Activities") is also contained in
Item 1 and in Tables I through VII on pages 99 through 111 and Note 18
Properties, Plant and Equipment.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

The following is a description of legal proceedings that involve governmental
authorities as a party and the company reasonably believes would result in
$1.0 million or more of monetary sanctions, exclusive of interest and costs,
under federal, state and local laws that have been enacted or adopted
regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or primarily for
the purpose of protecting the environment.

As previously disclosed, the California Department of Fish and Game, Office of
Spill Prevention and Response issued a Complaint - Notice of Violation (NOV)
to Chevron for alleged violations related to oil spills and impacted habitat
and species occurring between January 2018 and May 2022 at different Chevron
fields within Kern County, California. Resolution of the alleged violations
may result in the payment of a civil penalty of $1.0 million or more.

As previously disclosed, the California Department of Conservation, California
Geologic Energy Management Division (CalGEM) (previously known as the Division
of Oil, Gas and Geothermal Resources) promulgated revised rules pursuant to
the Underground Injection Control program that took effect April 1, 2019.
Subsequent to that date, CalGEM issued NOVs and two orders to Chevron related
to seeps that occurred in the Cymric Oil Field in Kern County, California. An
October 2, 2019 CalGEM order seeks a civil penalty of approximately $2.7
million. Chevron has filed an appeal of this order. Chevron is currently in
discussions with CalGEM to explore a global settlement to resolve the order
and all past and present seeps in the Cymric Field, which would increase the
amount of penalty paid.

Please see information related to other legal proceedings in Note 16
Litigation.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

Information about our Executive Officers

Information relating to the company's executive officers is included under
"Information about our Executive Officers" in Part III, Item 10, Directors,
Executive Officers and Corporate Governance, and is incorporated herein by
reference.

26

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (trading
symbol: CVX). As of February 10, 2023, stockholders of record numbered
approximately 104,000. There are no restrictions on the company's ability to
pay dividends. The information on Chevron's dividends are contained in the
Quarterly Results tabulation.

Chevron Corporation Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for Quarter Ended
December 31, 2022

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Total Number| Average| Total Number of Shares| Approximate Dollar Values of
Shares that  
| of Shares| Price Paid| Purchased as Part of Publicly| May Yet be Purchased
Under the Program  
Period |

Purchased 1,2

| per Share | Announced Program |

(Billions of dollars) 2  
  
October 1 - October 31, 2022| 7,582,842| $165.65| 7,582,805| $9.4  
November 1 - November 30, 2022| 6,967,090| $183.00| 6,966,715| $8.1  
December 1 - December 31, 2022| 6,972,807| $174.82| 6,972,807| $6.9  
Total October 1 - December 31, 2022| 21,522,739| $174.24| 21,522,327|  
  
1Includes common shares repurchased from participants in the company's
deferred compensation plans for personal income tax withholdings.

2Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional detail regarding the
company's authorized stock repurchase program.

  

Item 6. [Reserved]

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

The index to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations is presented in the Financial Table of Contents.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The company's discussion of interest rate, foreign currency and commodity
price market risk is contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Financial and Derivative
Instruments and in Note 10 Financial and Derivative Instruments.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The index to Financial Statements and Supplementary Data is presented in the
Financial Table of Contents.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

(a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures The company's management
has evaluated, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the
Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the company's disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period
covered by this report. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that
the company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December
31, 2022.

(b) Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The
company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). The company's management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting based
on the Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on the
results of this evaluation, the company's management concluded that internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2022.

The effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2022, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report
included herein.

27

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
(c) Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting During the quarter
ended December 31, 2022, there were no changes in the company's internal
control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over
financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information

Rule 10b5-1 Plan Elections

R. Hewitt Pate, Vice President and General Counsel, entered into a pre-
arranged stock trading plan on November 17, 2022. Mr. Pate's plan provides for
the potential exercise of vested stock options and the associated sale of up
to 250,742 shares of Chevron common stock between February 20, 2023 and
February 8, 2024.

Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

Not applicable.

28

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
PART III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Information about our Executive Officers at February 23, 2023

Members of the Corporation's Executive Committee are the Executive Officers of
the Corporation:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Name| Age| Current and Prior Positions (up to five years)| Primary Areas of
Responsibility  
Michael K. Wirth| 62| Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (since
Feb 2018)  
| Chairman of the Board and  
Chief Executive Officer  
Pierre R. Breber| 58| Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since Apr
2019)  
Executive Vice President, Downstream (Jan 2016 - Mar 2019)| Finance;
Procurement  
A. Nigel Hearne| 55|

Executive Vice President, Oil, Products & Gas (since Oct 2022)

President, Chevron Eurasia Pacific Exploration & Production (July

2020 - Oct 2022)

President, Chevron Asia Pacific Exploration & Production (Jan 2019

\- June 2020)

Managing Director, Australia Business Unit (July 2016 - Dec 2018)

| Upstream - Worldwide Exploration and Production;  
Downstream - Worldwide Manufacturing, Marketing, Lubricants, and Chemicals;  
Midstream - Worldwide  
Mark A. Nelson| 59|

Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President, Strategy, Policy & Development
(since Feb 2023)

Executive Vice President, Strategy, Policy & Development (Oct

2022 - Feb 2023)

Executive Vice President, Downstream (since Mar 2019 - Sep 2022)

Vice President, Midstream, Strategy and Policy (Feb 2018 - Feb

2019)

| Strategy & Sustainability; Corporate Affairs; Corporate Business Development  
Eimear P. Bonner| 48| Vice President (since Aug 2021), Chief Technology
Officer and  
President of Chevron Technical Center (since Feb 2021)  
General Director of Tengizchevroil (Dec 2018 - Jan 2021)  
General Manager of Operations of Tengizchevroil (Nov 2015 - Nov  
2018)|

Information Technology; Subsurface; Global Reserves; Wells; Asset Performance
and Process Safety; Facilities Designs and Solutions; Capital Projects;
Health, Safety and Environment; Downstream Technology  
  
Jeff B. Gustavson| 50| Vice President, Lower Carbon Energies (since Aug 2021)  
Vice President, Chevron North America Exploration & Production  
(Feb 2018 - July 2021)| Lower Carbon Solutions  
Rhonda J. Morris| 57| Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer (since
Feb 2019)  
Vice President, Human Resources (Oct 2016 - Jan 2019)| Human Resources;
Diversity and Inclusion  
| | |  
R. Hewitt Pate| 60| Vice President and General Counsel (since Aug 2009)| Law,
Governance and Compliance  
  
The information about directors required by Item 401(a), (d), (e) and (f) of
Regulation S-K and contained under the heading "Election of directors" in the
Notice of the 2023 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and 2023 Proxy Statement, to
be filed pursuant to Rule 14a-6(b) under the Exchange Act in connection with
the company's 2023 Annual Meeting (the 2023 Proxy Statement), is incorporated
by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The information required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K and contained under the
heading "Corporate governance -- Business conduct and ethics code" in the 2023
Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

The information required by Item 407(d)(4) and (5) of Regulation S-K and
contained under the heading "Corporate governance -- Board committees" in the
2023 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

29

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K and contained under the
headings "Executive compensation," "Director compensation" and "CEO pay ratio"
in the 2023 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

The information required by Item 407(e)(5) of Regulation S-K and contained
under the heading "Corporate governance -- Management compensation committee
report" in the 2023 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference into
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the
SEC under the Exchange Act, the information under such caption incorporated by
reference from the 2023 Proxy Statement shall not be deemed to be "soliciting
material," or to be "filed" with the Commission, or subject to Regulation 14A
or 14C or the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, nor shall it be
deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of
1933.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K and contained under the
heading "Stock ownership information -- Security ownership of certain
beneficial owners and management" in the 2023 Proxy Statement is incorporated
by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K and contained under
the heading "Equity compensation plan information" in the 2023 Proxy Statement
is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence

The information required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K and contained under the
heading "Corporate governance -- Related person transactions" in the 2023
Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

The information required by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K and contained under
the heading "Corporate governance -- Director independence" in the 2023 Proxy
Statement is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by Item 9(e) of Schedule 14A and contained under the
heading "Board proposal to ratify PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the
independent registered public accounting firm for 2023" in the 2023 Proxy
Statement is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

30

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Financial Table of Contents

| |

Table of Contents  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  
|  
| |  
|

Management's Discussion and Analysis of  
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
  
|

Key Financial Results

|

32  
  
|

Earnings by Major Operating Area

|

32  
  
|

Business Environment and Outlook

|

32  
  
|

Noteworthy Developments

|

38  
  
|

Results of Operations

|

39  
  
|

Consolidated Statement of Income

|

41  
  
|

Selected Operating Data

|

43  
  
|

Liquidity and Capital Resources

|

44  
  
|

Financial Ratios and Metrics

|

48  
  
| |  
|

Financial and Derivative Instrument Market Risk

|

49  
  
|

Transactions With Related Parties

|

50  
  
|

Litigation and Other Contingencies

|

50  
  
|

Environmental Matters

|

51  
  
|

Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions

|

52  
  
|

New Accounting Standards

|

55  
  
|

Quarterly Results

|

56  
  
| |  
|

Consolidated Financial Statements  
  
|

Reports of Management

|

57  
  
|

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 238)

|

58  
  
|

Consolidated Statement of Income

|

60  
  
|

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

|

61  
  
|

Consolidated Balance Sheet

|

62  
  
|

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

|

63  
  
|

Consolidated Statement of Equity

|

64  
  
| |  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  
|  
| |  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|  
  
Note 1

|

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

|

65  
  
Note 2

|

Changes in Accumulated Other

Comprehensive Losses

|

68  
  
| |  
  
Note 3

|

Information Relating to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

|

69  
  
Note 4

|

New Accounting Standards

|

70  
  
Note 5

|

Lease Commitments

|

70  
  
Note 6

|

Summarized Financial Data - Chevron U.S.A. Inc.

|

71  
  
| |  
| |  
  
Note 7

|

Summarized Financial Data - Tengizchevroil LLP

|

72  
  
Note 8

|

Summarized Financial Data - Chevron Phillips

Chemical Company LLC

|

72  
  
Note 9

|

Fair Value Measurements

|

72  
  
Note 10

|

Financial and Derivative Instruments

|

74  
  
Note 11

|

Assets Held for Sale

|

75  
  
Note 12

|

Equity

|

75  
  
Note 13

|

Earnings Per Share

|

75  
  
Note 14

|

Operating Segments and Geographic Data

|

76  
  
Note 15

|

Investments and Advances

|

79  
  
Note 16

|

Litigation

|

80  
  
Note 17

|

Taxes

|

81  
  
Note 18

|

Properties, Plant and Equipment

|

84  
  
Note 19

|

Short-Term Debt

|

85  
  
Note 20

|

Long-Term Debt

|

86  
  
Note 21

|

Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Wells

|

86  
  
Note 22

|

Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation

|

87  
  
Note 23

|

Employee Benefit Plans

|

89  
  
Note 24

|

Other Contingencies and Commitments

|

94  
  
Note 25

|

Asset Retirement Obligations

|

95  
  
| |  
  
Note 26

|

Revenue

|

96  
  
Note 27

|

Other Financial Information

|

96  
  
Note 28

|

Financial Instruments - Credit Losses

|

97  
  
Note 29

|

Acquisition of Renewable Energy Group, Inc.

|

97  
  
| |  
  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities

|

99  
  
| |  
  
31

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Key Financial Results

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation| $| 35,465 | | | $|
15,625 | | | $| (5,543)|  
Per Share Amounts:| | | | |  
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation| | | | |  
- Basic| $| 18.36 | | | $| 8.15 | | | $| (2.96)|   
- Diluted| $| 18.28 | | | $| 8.14 | | | $| (2.96)|   
Dividends| $| 5.68 | | | $| 5.31 | | | $| 5.16 |  
Sales and Other Operating Revenues| $| 235,717 | | | $| 155,606 | | | $|
94,471 |  
Return on:| | | | |  
Capital Employed| 20.3 | %| | 9.4 | %| | (2.8)| %  
Stockholders' Equity| 23.8 | %| | 11.5 | %| | (4.0)| %  
Earnings by Major Operating Area  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Upstream| | | | |  
United States| $| 12,621 | | | $| 7,319 | | | $| (1,608)|  
International| 17,663 | | | 8,499 | | | (825)|  
Total Upstream| 30,284 | | | 15,818 | | | (2,433)|  
Downstream| | | | |  
United States| 5,394 | | | 2,389 | | | (571)|  
International| 2,761 | | | 525 | | | 618 |  
Total Downstream| 8,155 | | | 2,914 | | | 47 |  
All Other| (2,974)| | | (3,107)| | | (3,157)|  
  
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation1,2

| $| 35,465 | | | $| 15,625 | | | $| (5,543)|  
  
1 Includes foreign currency effects:

| $| 669 | | | $| 306 | | | $| (645)|  
  
2 Income net of tax, also referred to as "earnings" in the discussions that
follow.  
  
Refer to the Results of Operations section for a discussion of financial
results by major operating area for the three years ended December 31, 2022.
Throughout the document, certain totals and percentages may not sum to their
component parts due to rounding.

Business Environment and Outlook

Chevron Corporation is a global energy company with substantial business
activities in the following countries: Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Bangladesh, Brazil, Canada, China, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Israel,
Kazakhstan, Mexico, Nigeria, the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and
Kuwait, the Philippines, Republic of Congo, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand,
the United Kingdom, the United States, and Venezuela.

The company's objective is to safely deliver higher returns, lower carbon and
superior shareholder value in any business environment. Earnings of the
company depend mostly on the profitability of its upstream business segment.
The most significant factor affecting the results of operations for the
upstream segment is the price of crude oil, which is determined in global
markets outside of the company's control. In the company's downstream
business, crude oil is the largest cost component of refined products. Periods
of sustained lower commodity prices could result in the impairment or write-
off of specific assets in future periods and cause the company to adjust
operating expenses, including employee reductions, and capital expenditures,
along with other measures intended to improve financial performance.

Governments, companies, communities, and other stakeholders are increasingly
supporting efforts to address climate change. International initiatives and
national, regional and state legislation and regulations that aim to directly
or indirectly reduce GHG emissions are in various stages of design, adoption,
and implementation. These policies and programs, some of which support the
global net zero emissions ambitions of the Paris Agreement, can change the
amount of energy consumed, the rate of energy-demand growth, the energy mix,
and the relative economics of one fuel versus another. Implementation of
jurisdiction-specific policies and programs can be dependent on, and can
affect the pace of, technological advancements, the granting of necessary
permits by governing authorities, the availability of cost-effective,
verifiable carbon credits, the availability of suppliers that can meet
sustainability and other standards, evolving regulatory or other requirements
affecting ESG standards or other disclosures, and evolving standards for
tracking and reporting on emissions and emission reductions and removals.

Some of these policies and programs include renewable and low carbon fuel
standards, such as the Renewable Fuel Standard program in the U.S. and
California's Low Carbon Fuel Standard; programs that price GHG emissions,
including

32

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
California's Cap-and-Trade Program; performance standards, including methane-
specific regulation such as the U.S. EPA's forthcoming New Source Performance
Standard and Emissions Guidelines for Existing Sources; and measures that
provide various incentives for lower carbon activities, including carbon
capture and storage and the production of hydrogen and sustainable aviation
fuel, such as the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act. Requirements for these and
other similar policies and programs are complex, ever changing, program
specific and encompass: (1) the blending of renewable fuels into
transportation fuels; (2) the purchasing, selling, utilizing and retiring of
allowances and carbon credits; and (3) other emissions reduction measures
including efficiency improvements and capturing GHG emissions. While these
compliance policies and programs may have negative impacts on the company now
and in the future including, but not limited to, the displacement of
hydrocarbon and other products, these policies have also enabled opportunities
for Chevron as it grows and aims to further grow its lower carbon businesses.
For example, the acquisition of Renewable Energy Group, Inc. (REG) in 2022
grew the company's renewable fuels production capacity and increased the
company's carbon credit generation activities. Although we expect the
company's costs to comply with these policies and programs to continue to
increase, these costs currently do not have a material impact on the company's
financial condition or results of operations.

Significant uncertainty remains as to the pace in which the transition to a
lower carbon future will progress, which is dependent, in part, on further
advancements and changes in policy, technology, and customer and consumer
preferences. The level of expenditure required to comply with new or potential
climate change-related laws and regulations and the amount of additional
investments needed in new or existing technology or facilities, such as carbon
capture and storage, is difficult to predict with certainty and is expected to
vary depending on the actual laws and regulations enacted, available
technology options, customer and consumer preferences, the company's
activities, and market conditions. As discussed below, in 2021, the company
announced planned capital spend of approximately $10 billion through 2028 in
lower carbon investments. Although the future is uncertain, many published
outlooks conclude that fossil fuels will remain a significant part of an
energy system that increasingly incorporates lower carbon sources of supply
for many years to come.

Chevron supports the Paris Agreement's global approach to governments
addressing climate change and continues to take actions to help lower the
carbon intensity of its operations while continuing to meet the demand for
energy. Chevron believes that broad, market-based mechanisms are the most
efficient approach to addressing GHG emission reductions. Chevron integrates
climate change-related issues and the regulatory and other responses to these
issues into its strategy and planning, capital investment reviews, and risk
management tools and processes, where it believes they are applicable. They
are also factored into the company's long-range supply, demand, and energy
price forecasts. These forecasts reflect estimates of long-range effects from
climate change-related policy actions, such as electric vehicle and renewable
fuel penetration, energy efficiency standards, and demand response to oil and
natural gas prices.

The company will continue to develop oil and gas resources to meet customers'
and consumers' demand for energy. At the same time, Chevron believes that the
future of energy is lower carbon. The company will continue to maintain
flexibility in its portfolio to be responsive to changes in policy,
technology, and customer and consumer preferences. Chevron aims to grow its
traditional oil and gas business, lower the carbon intensity of its operations
and grow lower carbon businesses in renewable fuels, hydrogen, carbon capture,
offsets, and other emerging technologies. To grow its lower carbon businesses,
Chevron plans to target sectors of the economy where emissions are harder to
abate or that cannot be easily electrified, while leveraging the company's
capabilities, assets and customer relationships. The company's traditional oil
and gas business may increase or decrease depending upon regulatory or market
forces, among other factors.

In 2021, Chevron announced the following aspiration and targets that are
aligned with its lower carbon strategy:

2050 Net Zero Upstream Aspiration Chevron aspires to achieve net zero for
upstream production Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions on an equity basis by 2050.
The company believes accomplishing this aspiration depends on, among other
things, partnerships with multiple stakeholders including customers,
continuing progress on commercially viable technology, government policy,
successful negotiations for carbon capture and storage and nature-based
projects, availability and acceptability of cost-effective, verifiable offsets
in the global market, and granting of necessary permits by governing
authorities.

2028 Upstream Production GHG Intensity Targets These metrics include Scope 1,
direct emissions, and Scope 2, indirect emissions from imported electricity
and steam, and are net of emissions from exported electricity and steam. The
targeted 2028 reductions from 2016 on an equity ownership basis include a:

•40 percent reduction in oil production GHG intensity to 24 kilograms (kg)
carbon dioxide equivalent per barrel of oil-equivalent (CO2e/boe),

•26 percent reduction in gas production GHG intensity to 24 kg CO2e/boe,

33

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
•53 percent reduction in methane intensity to 2 kg CO2e/boe, and

•66 percent reduction in flaring GHG intensity to 3 kg CO2e/boe.

The company also targets no routine flaring by 2030. We have set 2016 as our
baseline to align with the year the Paris Agreement entered into force, and
the company plans to update the metrics every five years in line with the
Paris Agreement stocktakes. We believe these updates will provide additional
transparency on the company's progress toward its net zero aspiration.

2028 Portfolio Carbon Intensity Target The company also introduced a portfolio
carbon intensity (PCI) metric, which is a measure of the carbon intensity
across the full value chain of Chevron's entire business. This metric
encompasses the company's upstream and downstream business and includes Scope
1 (direct emissions), Scope 2 (indirect emissions from imported electricity
and steam), and certain Scope 3 (primarily emissions from use of sold
products) emissions. The company's PCI target is 71 grams (g) carbon dioxide
equivalent (CO2e) per megajoule (MJ) by 2028, a greater than five percent
reduction from 2016.

Planned Lower-Carbon Capital Spend through 2028 In 2021, the company
established planned capital spend of approximately $10 billion through 2028 to
advance its lower carbon strategy, which includes approximately $2 billion to
lower the carbon intensity of its traditional oil and gas operations, and
approximately $8 billion for lower carbon investments in renewable fuels,
hydrogen and carbon capture and offsets. We anticipate setting additional
capital spending targets as the company progresses toward its 2050 upstream
production Scope 1 and 2 net zero aspiration and further grows its lower
carbon business lines.

During 2021 and 2022, the company spent $4.8 billion in lower carbon
investments, including $2.9 billion associated with the acquisition of REG.

Refer to "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A, on pages 20 through 26 for further
discussion of GHG regulation and climate change and the associated risks to
Chevron's business, including the risks impacting Chevron's lower carbon
strategy and its aspirations, targets and plans.

Income Taxes The effective tax rate for the company can change substantially
during periods of significant earnings volatility. This is due to the mix
effects that are impacted by both the absolute level of earnings or losses and
whether they arise in higher or lower tax rate jurisdictions. As a result, a
decline or increase in the effective income tax rate in one period may not be
indicative of expected results in future periods. Additional information
related to the company's effective income tax rate is included in Note 17
Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), enacted in the United States on August 16,
2022, imposes several new taxes that will be effective in 2023, including a 15
percent minimum tax on book income and a 1 percent excise tax on stock
repurchases. The IRA also implements various incentives for lower carbon
activities, including carbon capture and storage and the production of
hydrogen and sustainable aviation fuel, and extends the federal biodiesel
mixture excise tax credit through December 31, 2024. We do not currently
expect the IRA to have a material impact on our results of operations.

Supply Chain and Inflation Impacts The company is actively managing its
contracting, procurement, and supply chain activities to effectively manage
costs and facilitate supply chain resiliency and continuity in support of the
company's operational goals. Third party costs for capital, exploration, and
operating expenses can be subject to external factors beyond the company's
control including, but not limited to: severe weather or civil unrest, delays
in construction, global and local supply chain distribution issues, inflation,
tariffs or other taxes imposed on goods or services, and market-based prices
charged by the industry's material and service providers. Chevron utilizes
contracts with various pricing mechanisms, which may result in a lag before
the company's costs reflect changes in market trends.

Inflation continued to be a key factor impacting the economy over the last
year. For key oil and gas industry inputs (e.g. rigs, well services, etc.),
markets are likely to remain tight with any upward pressure tied directly to
possible increases in activity. In contrast, inflationary pressures have
started to reduce for non-oil and gas specific goods and services as a result
of reduced supply chain disruptions and a slowdown in economic activity.
Chevron's 2023 capital expenditure budget assumes cost inflation that averages
in the mid-single digits with certain areas higher, such as in the Permian
Basin that assumes low double-digit cost inflation. Chevron believes it is
well positioned to manage its costs for 2023, in large part due to indexed
contracts and secured supplies for critical inputs.

34

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Refer to the "Cautionary Statements Relevant to Forward-Looking Information"
on page 2 and to "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A, on pages 20 through 26 for
a discussion of some of the inherent risks that could materially impact the
company's results of operations or financial condition.

Other Impacts  The company continually evaluates opportunities to dispose of
assets that are not expected to provide sufficient long-term value and to
acquire assets or operations complementary to its asset base to help augment
the company's financial performance and value growth. Asset dispositions and
restructurings may result in significant gains or losses in future periods.

The company closely monitors developments in the financial and credit markets,
the level of worldwide economic activity, and the implications for the company
of movements in prices for crude oil and natural gas. Management takes these
developments into account in the conduct of daily operations and for business
planning.

The COVID-19 pandemic caused a significant decrease in demand for our products
and created disruptions and volatility in the global marketplace beginning
late in first quarter 2020. Demand has largely recovered as of year-end 2022;
however, there continues to be uncertainty around the extent to which the
COVID-19 pandemic may impact our future results, which could be material.

Earnings trends for the company's major business areas are described as
follows:

Upstream Earnings for the upstream segment are closely aligned with industry
prices for crude oil and natural gas. Crude oil and natural gas prices are
subject to external factors over which the company has no control, including
product demand connected with global economic conditions, industry production
and inventory levels, technology advancements, production quotas or other
actions imposed by OPEC+ countries, actions of regulators, weather-related
damage and disruptions, competing fuel prices, natural and human causes beyond
the company's control such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and regional supply
interruptions or fears thereof that may be caused by military conflicts, civil
unrest or political uncertainty. Any of these factors could also inhibit the
company's production capacity in an affected region. The company closely
monitors developments in the countries in which it operates and holds
investments and seeks to manage risks in operating its facilities and
businesses.

The longer-term trend in earnings for the upstream segment is also a function
of other factors, including the company's ability to find or acquire and
efficiently produce crude oil and natural gas, changes in fiscal terms of
contracts, the pace of energy transition, and changes in tax, environmental
and other applicable laws and regulations.

Chevron has interests in Venezuelan assets operated by independent affiliates.
Chevron has been conducting limited activities in Venezuela consistent with
the authorization provided pursuant to general licenses issued by the United
States government. In fourth quarter 2022, Chevron received License 41 from
the United States government, enabling the company to resume activity in
Venezuela subject to certain limitations. The financial results for Chevron's
business in Venezuela are being recorded as non-equity investments since 2020,
where income is only recognized when cash is received and production and
reserves are not included in the company's results. Crude oil liftings in
Venezuela commenced in first quarter 2023, which are expected to positively
impact the company's results going forward.

Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC), an equity affiliate, operates a 935-mile
crude oil export pipeline from the Tengiz Field in Kazakhstan to tanker-
loading facilities at Novorossiysk on the Russian coast of the Black Sea,
providing the main export route for crude oil production from TCO,
Karachaganak and other producing fields in Kazakhstan. The tanker loading
facilities at Novorossiysk consist of three single point mooring facilities,
with availability of two or more required to operate at full capacity. CPC is
capable of operating at approximately 70 percent of capacity with one single
point mooring facility in service. Two of the three offshore loading moorings
at the CPC marine terminal were taken out of service during August 2022 for
equipment repairs identified during normal maintenance. Repairs were completed
in fourth quarter 2022. Production at TCO was not impacted by this CPC outage
given turnaround activity at TCO and at other regional producers that ship
through CPC. However, there is a risk that production from TCO could be
curtailed in the future should availability of export facilities be
constrained.

Governments (including Russia) have imposed and may impose additional
sanctions and other trade laws, restrictions and regulations that could lead
to disruption in our ability to produce, transport and/or export crude in the
region around Russia and could have an adverse effect on CPC operations and/or
the company's financial position. The financial impacts of such risks,
including presently imposed sanctions, are not currently material for the
company; however, it remains uncertain how long these conditions may last or
how severe they may become.

  

35

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Commodity Prices The following chart shows the trend in benchmark prices for
Brent crude oil, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil and U.S. Henry Hub
natural gas. The Brent price averaged $101 per barrel for the full-year 2022,
compared to $71 in 2021. As of mid-February 2023, the Brent price was $85 per
barrel. The WTI price averaged $95 per barrel for the full-year 2022, compared
to $68 in 2021. As of mid-February 2023, the WTI price was $79 per barrel. The
majority of the company's equity crude production is priced based on the Brent
benchmark.

![cvx-20221231_g1.jpg](cvx-20221231_g1.jpg)

Crude prices increased in 2022 driven by geopolitical risk, supply decisions
by OPEC+ and continued demand recovery due to the further easing of COVID-19
restrictions. The company's average realization for U.S. crude oil and natural
gas liquids in 2022 was $77 per barrel, up 37 percent from 2021. The company's
average realization for international crude oil and natural gas liquids in
2022 was $91 per barrel, up 41 percent from 2021.

In contrast to price movements in the global market for crude oil, prices for
natural gas are also impacted by regional supply and demand and infrastructure
conditions in local markets. In the United States, prices at Henry Hub
averaged $6.36 per thousand cubic feet (MCF) during 2022, compared with $3.85
per MCF during 2021. As of mid-February 2023, the Henry Hub spot price was
$2.40 per MCF. (See page 43 for the company's average natural gas realizations
for the U.S.).

Outside the United States, prices for natural gas also depend on a wide range
of supply, demand and regulatory circumstances. The company's long-term
contract prices for liquefied natural gas (LNG) are typically linked to crude
oil prices. Most of the equity LNG offtake from the operated Australian LNG
projects is committed under binding long-term contracts, with some sold in the
Asian spot LNG market. International natural gas realizations averaged $9.75
per MCF during 2022, compared with $5.93 per MCF during 2021, mainly due to
higher LNG prices.

Production The company's worldwide net oil-equivalent production in 2022 was 3
million barrels per day. About 27 percent of the company's net oil-equivalent
production in 2022 occurred in OPEC+ member countries of Angola, Equatorial
Guinea, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and
Kuwait and Republic of Congo.

The company estimates its net oil-equivalent production in 2023, assuming a
Brent crude oil price of $80 per barrel, to be flat to up 3 percent compared
to 2022. This estimate is subject to many factors and uncertainties, including
quotas or other actions that may be imposed by OPEC+; price effects on
entitlement volumes; changes in fiscal terms or restrictions on the scope of
company operations; delays in construction; reservoir performance; greater-
than-expected declines in production from mature fields; start-up or ramp-up
of projects; fluctuations in demand for crude oil and natural gas in various
markets; weather conditions that may shut in production; civil unrest;
changing geopolitics; delays in completion of maintenance turnarounds; storage
constraints or economic conditions that could lead to shut-in production; or
other disruptions to operations. The outlook for future production levels is
also affected by the size and number of economic investment opportunities and
the time lag between initial exploration and the beginning of production. The
company has increased its investment emphasis on short-cycle projects.

36

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
![cvx-20221231_g2.jpg](cvx-20221231_g2.jpg)

Proved Reserves Net proved reserves for consolidated companies and affiliated
companies totaled 11.2 billion barrels of oil-equivalent at year-end 2022, a
slight decrease from year-end 2021. The reserve replacement ratio in 2022 was
97 percent. The 5 and 10 year reserve replacement ratios were 92 percent and
99 percent, respectively. Refer to Table V for a tabulation of the company's
proved net oil and gas reserves by geographic area, at the beginning of 2020
and each year-end from 2020 through 2022, and an accompanying discussion of
major changes to proved reserves by geographic area for the three-year period
ending December 31, 2022.

Refer to the "Results of Operations" section on pages 39 and 40 for additional
discussion of the company's upstream business.

Downstream Earnings for the downstream segment are closely tied to margins on
the refining, manufacturing and marketing of products that include gasoline,
diesel, jet fuel, lubricants, fuel oil, fuel and lubricant additives,
petrochemicals and renewable fuels. Industry margins are sometimes volatile
and can be affected by the global and regional supply-and-demand balance for
refined products and petrochemicals, and by changes in the price of crude oil,
other refinery and petrochemical feedstocks, and natural gas. Industry margins
can also be influenced by inventory levels, geopolitical events, costs of
materials and services, refinery or chemical plant capacity utilization,
maintenance programs, and disruptions at refineries or chemical plants
resulting from unplanned outages due to severe weather, fires or other
operational events.

Other factors affecting profitability for downstream operations include the
reliability and efficiency of the company's refining, marketing and
petrochemical assets, the effectiveness of its crude oil and product supply
functions, and the volatility of tanker-charter rates for the company's
shipping operations, which are driven by the industry's demand for crude oil
and product tankers. Other factors beyond the company's control include the
general level of inflation and energy costs to operate the company's refining,
marketing and petrochemical assets, and changes in tax, environmental, and
other applicable laws and regulations.

Refining margins were higher in 2022 because of recovering demand for refined
products, low product inventories, lower industry refining capacity and lower
product exports from Russia and China. Refining utilization was strong in 2022
to keep pace with demand growth. Although refining margins were elevated and
still remain above historical levels, they fell considerably in late 2022.
There are signs that higher refined product prices and concerns over
macroeconomic conditions are slowing demand.

The company's most significant marketing areas are the West Coast and Gulf
Coast of the United States and Asia Pacific. Chevron operates or has
significant ownership interests in refineries in each of these areas.
Additionally, the company has a growing presence in renewable fuels after
acquiring REG.

Refer to the "Results of Operations" section on page 40 for additional
discussion of the company's downstream operations.

All Other consists of worldwide cash management and debt financing activities,
corporate administrative functions, insurance operations, real estate
activities and technology companies.

37

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Noteworthy Developments

Key noteworthy developments and other events during 2022 and early 2023
included the following:

Angola Announced final investment decision for gas development projects at the
Quiluma and Maboqueiro (Q&M) fields.

Argentina Received a concession for the development of unconventional
hydrocarbon resources in the east area of the El Trapial field for a 35-year
period.

Australia Received permits, as part of joint ventures, to assess carbon
storage for three blocks totaling nearly 7.8 million acres in offshore
Australia.

Canada Invested in Aurora Hydrogen, a company developing emission-free
hydrogen production technology.

Egypt Made a significant gas discovery at the Nargis block offshore Egypt in
the eastern Mediterranean Sea.

Finland Acquired Neste Oyj's Group III base oil business, including its
related sales and marketing business, and NEXBASETM brand.

Israel Approved a project to expand the company's Tamar gas field in offshore
Israel.

Namibia Entered Namibia by acquiring an 80 percent working interest in a
deepwater oil and gas exploration lease.

Nigeria Extended Agbami and Usan leases to 2042.

Qatar Reached final investment decision with QatarEnergy on Ras Laffan
Petrochemicals Complex through the company's 50 percent owned affiliate,
Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem).

Republic of Congo Extended the Haute Mer production sharing contract to 2040.

United States Completed the sale of the company's interest in the Eagle Ford
Shale in Texas.

United States Approved the Ballymore project in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of
Mexico. The field is planned to be produced through an existing facility with
an allocated capacity of 75,000 barrels of crude oil per day.

United States Completed Project Canary pilot to independently certify
operational and environment performance and earned highest certification
rating for almost all participating Permian and DJ basins upstream assets,
positioning the company to market responsibly sourced natural gas from the
certified assets.

United States Acquired a 50 percent stake in an expanded joint venture to
develop the Bayou Bend Carbon Capture and Sequestration (CCS) hub, with the
goal of the hub becoming one of the first offshore CCS projects in the United
States.

United States Formed a joint venture with Bunge North America, Inc. to develop
renewable fuel feedstocks, leveraging Bunge's expertise in oilseed processing
and farmer relationships and Chevron's expertise in fuels manufacturing and
marketing.

United States Acquired REG, becoming the second largest producer of bio-based
diesel in the United States.

United States Awarded 34 exploration leases in the Gulf of Mexico.

United States Announced investment in a new joint venture with California
Bioenergy LLC to build infrastructure for the company's dairy biomethane
projects in California.

United States Commenced a project expected to increase light crude oil
processing capacity to 125,000 barrels per day at the company's Pasadena,
Texas refinery.

United States Reached final investment decision on a major integrated polymer
project (Golden Triangle Polymers) in the U.S. Gulf Coast at its 50 percent
owned affiliate, CPChem.

United States Completed construction of a joint venture solar energy project
to generate renewable energy for the company's oil and gas operations in the
Permian Basin.

United States Acquired full ownership of Beyond6, LLC and its nationwide
network of 55 compressed natural gas stations to grow Chevron's renewable
natural gas value chain.

United States Announced joint venture with Baseload Capital to develop
geothermal projects.

United States Announced collaboration with Raven SR Inc. and Hyzon Motors to
produce hydrogen from green waste.

38

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
United States Announced agreements or investments in companies to access and
possibly develop lower carbon technologies, including Iwatani Corporation
(hydrogen fueling sites), Carbon Clean Solutions Limited (carbon capture), TAE
Technologies (nuclear fusion) and Svante Technology Inc. (carbon capture).

Common Stock Dividends The 2022 annual dividend was $5.68 per share, making
2022 the 35th consecutive year that the company increased its annual per share
dividend payout. In January 2023, the company's Board of Directors increased
its quarterly dividend by $0.09 per share, approximately six percent, to $1.51
per share payable in March 2023.

Common Stock Repurchase Program The company repurchased $11.25 billion of its
common stock in 2022 under its stock repurchase program. For more information
on the common stock repurchase program, see Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Results of Operations

The following section presents the results of operations and variances on an
after-tax basis for the company's business segments - Upstream and Downstream
- as well as for "All Other." Earnings are also presented for the U.S. and
international geographic areas of the Upstream and Downstream business
segments. Refer to Note 14 Operating Segments and Geographic Data for a
discussion of the company's "reportable segments." This section should also be
read in conjunction with the discussion in Business Environment and Outlook.
Refer to the Selected Operating Data for a three-year comparison of production
volumes, refined product sales volumes and refinery inputs. A discussion of
variances between 2021 and 2020 can be found in the "Results of Operations"
section on pages 39 through 40 of the company's 2021 Annual Report on Form
10-K filed with the SEC on February 24, 2022.

![cvx-20221231_g3.jpg](cvx-20221231_g3.jpg)

U.S. Upstream

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Earnings (Loss)| $| 12,621 | | | | $| 7,319 | | | $| (1,608)|  
  
U.S. upstream reported earnings of $12.6 billion in 2022, compared with $7.3
billion in 2021. The increase was due to higher realizations of $6.6 billion
and higher sales volumes of $380 million, partially offset by higher operating
expenses of $1.1 billion largely due to an early contract termination at
Sabine Pass and lower asset sale gains of $670 million.

The company's average realization for U.S. crude oil and natural gas liquids
in 2022 was $76.71 per barrel compared with $56.06 in 2021. The average
natural gas realization was $5.55 per thousand cubic feet in 2022, compared
with $3.11 in 2021.

Net oil-equivalent production in 2022 averaged 1.18 million barrels per day,
up 4 percent from 2021. The increase was primarily due to net production
increases in the Permian Basin.

The net liquids component of oil-equivalent production for 2022 averaged
888,000 barrels per day, up 3 percent from 2021. Net natural gas production
averaged 1.76 billion cubic feet per day in 2022, an increase of 4 percent
from 2021.

39

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
International Upstream

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
  
Earnings (Loss)*

| $| 17,663 | | | | $| 8,499 | | | $| (825)|  
  
*Includes foreign currency effects:

| $| 816 | | | | $| 302 | | | $| (285)|  
  
International upstream reported earnings of $17.7 billion in 2022, compared
with $8.5 billion in 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher
realizations of $10.0 billion, lower operating expenses, lower depreciation,
depletion and amortization related to end of concessions in Indonesia and
Thailand of $1.3 billion and asset sale gains of $220 million. This was
partially offset by lower sales volumes of $1.3 billion (also largely
associated with the end of concessions in Indonesia and Thailand) and write-
off and impairment charges of $1.1 billion. Foreign currency effects had a
favorable impact on earnings of $514 million between periods.

The company's average realization for international crude oil and natural gas
liquids in 2022 was $90.71 per barrel compared with $64.53 in 2021. The
average natural gas realization was $9.75 per thousand cubic feet in 2022
compared with $5.93 in 2021.

International net oil-equivalent production was 1.82 million barrels per day
in 2022, down 7 percent from 2021. The decrease was primarily due to lower
production following expiration of the Erawan concession in Thailand and Rokan
concession in Indonesia.

The net liquids component of international oil-equivalent production was
831,000 barrels per day in 2022, a decrease of 13 percent from 2021.
International net natural gas production of 5.92 billion cubic feet per day in
2022, a decrease of 2 percent from 2021.

U.S. Downstream

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Earnings (Loss)| $| 5,394 | | | | $| 2,389 | | | $| (571)|  
  
U.S. downstream reported earnings of $5.4 billion in 2022, compared with $2.4
billion in 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher margins on refined
product sales of $4.4 billion, partially offset by lower earnings from the 50
percent-owned CPChem of $790 million and higher operating expenses of $790
million, largely due to planned turnarounds.

Total refined product sales of 1.23 million barrels per day in 2022 increased
8 percent from 2021, mainly due to higher renewable fuel sales following the
REG acquisition and higher jet fuel demand.

International Downstream

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
  
Earnings*

| $| 2,761 | | | | $| 525 | | | $| 618 |  
  
*Includes foreign currency effects:

| $| 235 | | | | $| 185 | | | $| (152)|  
  
International downstream earned $2.8 billion in 2022, compared with $525
million in 2021. The increase in earnings was mainly due to higher margins on
refined product sales of $2.7 billion and a favorable swing in foreign
currency effects of $50 million between periods, partially offset by higher
operating expenses of $650 million, largely due to transportation costs.

Total refined product sales of 1.39 million barrels per day in 2022 were up 5
percent from 2021, mainly due to higher jet fuel demand as travel restrictions
associated with the COVID-19 pandemic continue to ease.

All Other

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
  
Net charges*

| $| (2,974)| | | | $| (3,107)| | | $| (3,157)|  
  
*Includes foreign currency effects:

| $| (382)| | | | $| (181)| | | $| (208)|  
  
All Other consists of worldwide cash management and debt financing activities,
corporate administrative functions, insurance operations, real estate
activities, and technology companies.

Net charges in 2022 decreased $133 million from 2021. The change between
periods was mainly due to lower pension settlement expense, loss on early debt
retirement and lower interest expense, partially offset by the absence of 2021
favorable tax items and higher interest income. Foreign currency effects
increased net charges by $201 million between periods.

40

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Consolidated Statement of Income

Comparative amounts for certain income statement categories are shown below. A
discussion of variances between 2021 and 2020 can be found in the
"Consolidated Statement of Income" section on pages 39 and 40 of the company's
2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020 |  
Sales and other operating revenues| $| 235,717 | | | | $| 155,606 | | | $|
94,471 |  
  
Sales and other operating revenues increased in 2022 mainly due to higher
refined product, crude oil, and natural gas prices and higher refined product
sales volumes.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020 |  
Income (loss) from equity affiliates| $| 8,585 | | | | $| 5,657 | | | $|
(472)|  
  
Income from equity affiliates improved in 2022 mainly due to higher upstream-
related earnings from Tengizchevroil in Kazakhstan and Angola LNG and higher
downstream-related earnings from GS Caltex in Korea, partially offset by lower
earnings from CPChem. Refer to Note 15 Investments and Advances for a
discussion of Chevron's investments in affiliated companies.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020 |  
Other income| $| 1,950 | | | | $| 1,202 | | | $| 693 |  
  
Other income increased in 2022 mainly due to a favorable swing in foreign
currency effects, higher interest income and lower charges associated with the
early retirement of debt, partially offset by lower gains on asset sales.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020 |  
Purchased crude oil and products| $| 145,416 | | | | $| 92,249 | | | $| 52,148
|  
  
Crude oil and product purchases increased in 2022 primarily due to higher
crude oil, natural gas, and refined product prices.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020 |  
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses| $| 29,026 | | | | $|
24,740 | | | $| 24,536 |  
  
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2022
primarily due to higher transportation expenses, early contract termination
charge at Sabine Pass and costs associated with planned refinery turnarounds.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020 |  
Exploration expense| $| 974 | | | | $| 549 | | | $| 1,537 |  
  
Exploration expenses in 2022 increased primarily due to higher charges for
well write-offs.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020 |  
Depreciation, depletion and amortization| $| 16,319 | | | | $| 17,925 | | | $|
19,508 |  
  
Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses decreased in 2022 primarily
due to lower rates and lower production, partially offset by higher impairment
and write-off charges.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020 |  
Taxes other than on income| $| 4,032 | | | | $| 3,963 | | | $| 2,839 |  
  
Taxes other than on income increased in 2022 primarily due to higher taxes on
production, partially offset by lower excise taxes.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020 |  
Interest and debt expense| $| 516 | | | | $| 712 | | | $| 697 |  
  
Interest and debt expenses decreased in 2022 mainly due to lower debt
balances.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020 |  
Other components of net periodic benefit costs| $| 295 | | | | $| 688 | | | $|
880 |  
  
Other components of net periodic benefit costs decreased in 2022 primarily due
to lower pension settlement costs, as fewer lump-sum pension distributions
were made in the current year.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020 |  
Income tax expense (benefit) | $| 14,066 | | | | $| 5,950 | | | $| (1,892)|  
  
41

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
The increase in income tax expense in 2022 of $8.1 billion is due to the
increase in total income before tax for the company of $28.0 billion. The
increase in income before taxes for the company is primarily the result of
higher upstream realizations and downstream margins.

U.S. income before tax increased from $9.7 billion in 2021 to $21.0 billion in
2022. This $11.3 billion increase in income was primarily driven by higher
upstream realizations and downstream margins, partially offset by higher
operating expenses and lower asset sale gains. The increase in income had a
direct impact on the company's U.S. income tax resulting in an increase to tax
expense of $2.9 billion between year-over-year periods, from $1.6 billion in
2021 to $4.5 billion in 2022.

International income before tax increased from $12.0 billion in 2021 to $28.7
billion in 2022. This $16.7 billion increase in income was primarily driven by
higher upstream realizations and downstream margins. The increased income
primarily drove the $5.2 billion increase in international income tax expense
between year-over-year periods, from $4.3 billion in 2021 to $9.6 billion in
2022.

Refer also to the discussion of the effective income tax rate in Note 17
Taxes.

42

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Selected Operating Data1,2

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020|  
U.S. Upstream| | | | | |  
Net Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids Production (MBPD)| 888| | 858| | 789|  
  
Net Natural Gas Production (MMCFPD)3

| 1,758| | 1,689| | 1,607|  
Net Oil-Equivalent Production (MBOEPD)| 1,181| | 1,139| | 1,058|  
  
Sales of Natural Gas (MMCFPD)4

| 4,354| | 3,986| | 3,873|  
Sales of Natural Gas Liquids (MBPD)| 276| | 201| | 208|  
Revenues from Net Production| | | | | |  
Liquids ($/Bbl)| $| 76.71 | | | $| 56.06 | | | $| 30.53 | |  
Natural Gas ($/MCF)| $| 5.55 | | | $| 3.11 | | | $| 0.98 | |  
| | | | | |  
International Upstream| | | | | |  
  
Net Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids Production (MBPD)5

| 831| | 956| | 1,078|  
  
Net Natural Gas Production (MMCFPD)3

| 5,919| | 6,020| | 5,683|  
| | | | | |  
  
Net Oil-Equivalent Production (MBOEPD)4

| 1,818| | 1,960| | 2,025|  
Sales of Natural Gas (MMCFPD)| 5,786| | 5,178| | 5,634|  
Sales of Natural Gas Liquids (MBPD)| 107| | 84| | 46|  
Revenues from Liftings| | | | | |  
Liquids ($/Bbl)| $| 90.71 | | | $| 64.53 | | | $| 36.07 | |  
Natural Gas ($/MCF)| $| 9.75 | | | $| 5.93 | | | $| 4.59 | |  
| | | | | |  
Worldwide Upstream| | | | | |  
  
Net Oil-Equivalent Production (MBOEPD)5

| | | | | |  
United States| 1,181| | 1,139| | 1,058|  
International| 1,818| | 1,960| | 2,025|  
Total| 2,999| | 3,099| | 3,083|  
| | | | | |  
U.S. Downstream| | | | | |  
  
Gasoline Sales (MBPD)6

| 639| | 655| | 581|  
Other Refined Product Sales (MBPD)| 589| | 484| | 422|  
Total Refined Product Sales (MBPD)| 1,228| | 1,139| | 1,003|  
  
Sales of Natural Gas (MMCFPD)4

| 24| | 21| | 21|  
Sales of Natural Gas Liquids (MBPD)| 27| | 29| | 25|  
Refinery Crude Oil Input (MBPD)| 866| | 903| | 793|  
| | | | | |  
International Downstream| | | | | |  
  
Gasoline Sales (MBPD)5

| 336| | 321| | 264|  
Other Refined Product Sales (MBPD)| 1,050| | 994| | 957|  
  
Total Refined Product Sales (MBPD)7

| 1,386| | 1,315| | 1,221|  
  
Sales of Natural Gas (MMCFPD)4

| 3| | --| | --|  
Sales of Natural Gas Liquids (MBPD)| 127| | 96| | 74|  
Refinery Crude Oil Input (MBPD)| 639| | 576| | 584|  
  
1 Includes company share of equity affiliates.

|  
  
2 MBPD - thousands of barrels per day; MMCFPD - millions of cubic feet per
day; MBOEPD - thousands of barrels of oil-equivalents per day; Bbl - barrel;
MCF - thousands of cubic feet. Oil-equivalent gas (OEG) conversion ratio is
6,000 cubic feet of natural gas = 1 barrel of crude oil.

|  
  
3 Includes natural gas consumed in operations (MMCFPD):

|  
United States| 53 | | | 44 | | | 37 | |  
International| 517 | | | 548 | | | 566 | |  
  
4  Downstream sales of Natural Gas separately identified from Upstream.

| | | | | |  
  
5 Includes net production of synthetic oil:

| | | | | |  
Canada| 45 | | | 55 | | | 54 | |  
  
6  Includes branded and unbranded gasoline.

| | | | | |  
  
7 Includes sales of affiliates (MBPD):

| 389 | | | 357 | | | 348 | |  
  
  

|  
  
  

43

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Liquidity and Capital Resources

Sources and Uses of Cash The strength of the company's balance sheet enables
it to fund any timing differences throughout the year between cash inflows and
outflows.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Total balances were $17.9
billion and $5.7 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Cash
provided by operating activities in 2022 was $49.6 billion, compared to $29.2
billion in 2021, primarily due to higher upstream realizations and refining
margins. Cash provided by operating activities was net of contributions to
employee pension plans of approximately $1.3 billion in 2022 and $1.8 billion
in 2021. Proceeds and deposits related to asset sales totaled $1.4 billion in
each of the last two years. Returns of investment totaled $1.2 billion and
$439 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The returns of investment in 2022
were primarily from Angola LNG. As of third quarter 2022, Angola LNG
distributions were, and are expected to continue to be, largely reflected in
cash flow from operations. Cash flow from financing activities includes
proceeds from shares issued for stock options of $5.8 billion in 2022,
compared with $1.4 billion in 2021. Future cash proceeds from option exercises
are expected to be lower than in 2022.

Restricted cash of $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively, was held in cash and short-term marketable securities and
recorded as "Deferred charges and other assets" and "Prepaid expenses and
other current assets" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. These amounts are
generally associated with upstream decommissioning activities, tax payments
and funds held in escrow for tax-deferred exchanges.

Dividends Dividends paid to common stockholders were $11.0 billion in 2022 and
$10.2 billion in 2021.

Debt and Finance Lease Liabilities Total debt and finance lease liabilities
were $23.3 billion at December 31, 2022, down from $31.4 billion at year-end
2021.

The $8.1 billion decrease in total debt and finance lease liabilities during
2022 was primarily due to the repayment of long-term notes that matured during
the year and the early retirement of long-term notes. The company's debt and
finance lease liabilities due within one year, consisting primarily of the
current portion of long-term debt and redeemable long-term obligations,
totaled $6.0 billion at December 31, 2022, compared with $8.0 billion at year-
end 2021. Of these amounts, $4.1 billion and $7.8 billion were reclassified to
long-term debt at the end of 2022 and 2021, respectively.

At year-end 2022, settlement of these obligations was not expected to require
the use of working capital in 2023, as the company had the intent and the
ability, as evidenced by committed credit facilities, to refinance them on a
long-term basis.

The company has access to a commercial paper program as a financing source for
working capital or other short-term needs. The company had no commercial paper
outstanding as of December 31, 2022.

The company has an automatic shelf registration statement that expires in
August 2023 for an unspecified amount of nonconvertible debt securities issued
by Chevron Corporation or Chevron U.S.A. Inc. (CUSA).

![cvx-20221231_g4.jpg](cvx-20221231_g4.jpg)

44

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate the company's debt, and the
company's cost of borrowing can increase or decrease depending on these debt
ratings. The company has outstanding public bonds issued by Chevron
Corporation, CUSA, Noble Energy, Inc. (Noble), and Texaco Capital Inc. Most of
these securities are the obligations of, or guaranteed by, Chevron Corporation
and are rated AA- by Standard and Poor's Corporation and Aa2 by Moody's
Investors Service. The company's U.S. commercial paper is rated A-1+ by
Standard and Poor's and P-1 by Moody's. All of these ratings denote high-
quality, investment-grade securities.

The company's future debt level is dependent primarily on results of
operations, cash that may be generated from asset dispositions, the capital
program, lending commitments to affiliates and shareholder distributions.
Based on its high-quality debt ratings, the company believes that it has
substantial borrowing capacity to meet unanticipated cash requirements. During
extended periods of low prices for crude oil and natural gas and narrow
margins for refined products and commodity chemicals, the company has the
ability to modify its capital spending plans and discontinue or curtail the
stock repurchase program. This provides the flexibility to continue paying the
common stock dividend and remain committed to retaining the company's high-
quality debt ratings.

Committed Credit Facilities Information related to committed credit facilities
is included in Note 19 Short-Term Debt.

Summarized Financial Information for Guarantee of Securities of Subsidiaries
CUSA issued bonds that are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on an
unsecured basis by Chevron Corporation (together, the "Obligor Group"). The
tables below contain summary financial information for Chevron Corporation, as
Guarantor, excluding its consolidated subsidiaries, and CUSA, as the issuer,
excluding its consolidated subsidiaries. The summary financial information of
the Obligor Group is presented on a combined basis, and transactions between
the combined entities have been eliminated. Financial information for non-
guarantor entities has been excluded.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31, 2022| | Year Ended December 31, 2021  
| (Millions of dollars) (unaudited)  
Sales and other operating revenues| $| 126,911 | | | $| 88,038 |  
Sales and other operating revenues - related party| 50,082 | | | 28,499 |  
Total costs and other deductions| 121,757 | | | 86,369 |  
Total costs and other deductions - related party| 43,042 | | | 28,277 |  
Net income (loss) | $| 15,043 | | | $| 5,515 |  
| | |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31,  
2022| | At December 31,  
2021  
| (Millions of dollars) (unaudited)  
Current assets| $| 28,781 | | | $| 15,567 |  
Current assets - related party| 12,326 | | | 12,227 |  
Other assets | 50,505 | | | 48,461 |  
Current liabilities | 22,663 | | | 22,554 |  
Current liabilities - related party| 118,277 | | | 79,778 |  
Other liabilities| 27,353 | | | 32,825 |  
Total net equity (deficit)| $| (76,681)| | | $| (58,902)|  
  
Common Stock Repurchase Program The Board of Directors authorized a stock
repurchase program in 2019, with a maximum dollar limit of $25 billion and no
set term limits (the "2019 Program"). During 2022, the company purchased 69.9
million shares for $11.25 billion under the 2019 Program. As of December 31,
2022, the company had purchased a total of 131.4 million shares for $18.1
billion, resulting in $6.9 billion remaining under the 2019 Program. The
company currently expects to repurchase $3.75 billion of its common stock
during the first quarter of 2023 under the 2019 Program and will incur an
additional one percent excise tax on such purchases as required by the IRA.

On January 25, 2023, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of the
company's shares of common stock in an aggregate amount of $75 billion. The
$75 billion authorization takes effect on April 1, 2023 and does not have a
fixed expiration date (the "2023 Program"). It replaces the Board's previous
repurchase authorization of $25 billion from January 2019, which will
terminate on March 31, 2023, after the completion of the company's repurchases
in the first quarter of 2023.

Repurchases of shares of the company's common stock may be made from time to
time in the open market, by block purchases, in privately negotiated
transactions or in such other manner as determined by the company. The timing
of the

45

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
repurchases and the actual amount repurchased will depend on a variety of
factors, including the market price of the company's shares, general market
and economic conditions, and other factors. The stock repurchase program does
not obligate the company to acquire any particular amount of common stock and
may be suspended or discontinued at any time.

Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures (Capex) primarily includes additions
to fixed asset or investment accounts for the company's consolidated
subsidiaries and is disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Capex by business segment for 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
Capex| 2022| | | 2021| | | 2020  
Millions of dollars| U.S.| Int'l.| Total| | | U.S.| Int'l.| Total| | | U.S.|
Int'l.| Total  
Upstream| $| 6,847 | | $| 2,718 | | $| 9,565 | | | | $| 4,554 | | $| 2,221 | |
$| 6,775 | | | | $| 4,933 | | $| 2,555 | | $| 7,488 |  
Downstream| 1,699 | | 375 | | 2,074 | | | | 806 | | 234 | | 1,040 | | | | 644
| | 551 | | 1,195 |  
All Other| 310 | | 25 | | 335 | | | | 221 | | 20 | | 241 | | | | 226 | | 13 |
| 239 |  
Capex| $| 8,856 | | $| 3,118 | | $| 11,974 | | | | $| 5,581 | | $| 2,475 | |
$| 8,056 | | | | $| 5,803 | | $| 3,119 | | $| 8,922 |  
  
Capex for 2022 was $12.0 billion, 49 percent higher than 2021 due to increased
upstream spend in the Permian Basin along with higher spend in downstream,
largely related to the formation of the Bunge North America, Inc. (Bunge)
joint venture and acquisition of the remaining interest in Beyond6, LLC
(Beyond6).

The company estimates that 2023 Capex will be approximately $14 billion. In
the upstream business, Capex is estimated to be $11.5 billion and includes
more than $4 billion for Permian Basin development and roughly $2 billion for
other shale & tight assets. More than 20 percent of upstream Capex is planned
for projects in the Gulf of Mexico. Worldwide downstream spending in 2023 is
estimated to be $1.9 billion. Investments in technology businesses and other
corporate operations in 2023 are budgeted at $0.6 billion. Lower carbon Capex
across all segments totals around $2 billion, including approximately $0.5
billion to lower the carbon intensity of Chevron's traditional operations and
about $1 billion to increase renewable fuels production capacity.

Affiliate capital expenditures (Affiliate Capex), which does not require cash
outlays by the company, is expected to be $3 billion in 2023. Nearly half of
Affiliate Capex is for Tengizchevroil's FGP / WPMP Project in Kazakhstan and
about a third is for CPChem.

Capital and Exploratory Expenditures Capital and exploratory expenditures
(C&E) is a key performance indicator and provides the company's investment
level in its consolidated companies. This metric includes additions to fixed
asset or investment accounts along with exploration expense for its
consolidated companies. Management uses this metric along with Affiliate C&E
(as defined below) to manage the allocation of capital across the company's
entire portfolio, funding requirements and ultimately shareholder
distributions.

The components of C&E are presented in the following table:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Capital expenditures| $| 11,974 | | | | $| 8,056 | | | $| 8,922 |  
Expensed exploration expenditures| 488 | | | | 431 | | | 500 |  
Assets acquired through finance leases and other obligations| 3 | | | | 64 | |
| 53 |  
Payments for other assets and liabilities, net| (169)| | | | 2 | | | 42 |  
Capital and exploratory expenditures (C&E)| $| 12,296 | | | | $| 8,553 | | |
$| 9,517 |  
Affiliate capital and exploratory expenditures (Affiliate C&E)| $| 3,366 | | |
| $| 3,167 | | | $| 3,982 |  
  
C&E by business segment for 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
C&E| 2022| | | 2021| | | 2020  
Millions of dollars| U.S.| Int'l.| Total| | | U.S.| Int'l.| Total| | | U.S.|
Int'l.| Total  
Upstream| $| 6,980 | | $| 3,073 | | $| 10,053 | | | | $| 4,696 | | $| 2,512 |
| $| 7,208 | | | | $| 5,130 | | $| 2,867 | | $| 7,997 |  
Downstream| 1,702 | | 206 | | 1,908 | | | | 870 | | 234 | | 1,104 | | | | 697
| | 584 | | 1,281 |  
All Other| 310 | | 25 | | 335 | | | | 221 | | 20 | | 241 | | | | 226 | | 13 |
| 239 |  
C&E| $| 8,992 | | $| 3,304 | | $| 12,296 | | | | $| 5,787 | | $| 2,766 | | $|
8,553 | | | | $| 6,053 | | $| 3,464 | | $| 9,517 |  
  
46

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
C&E for 2022 was $12.3 billion, 44 percent higher than 2021 due to increased
upstream spend in the Permian Basin along with higher spend in downstream,
largely related to the formation of the Bunge joint venture and acquisition of
the remaining interest in Beyond6. The acquisitions of Renewable Energy Group
Inc. and Noble are not included in the company's C&E or Capex.

Affiliate Capital and Exploratory Expenditures Equity affiliate capital and
exploratory expenditures (Affiliate C&E) is also a key performance indicator
that provides the company's share of investments in its significant equity
affiliate companies. This metric includes additions to fixed asset and
investment accounts along with exploration expense in the equity affiliate
companies' financial statements. Management uses this metric to assess
possible funding needs and/or shareholder distribution capacity of the
company's equity affiliate companies. Together with C&E, management also uses
Affiliate C&E to manage allocation of capital across the company's entire
portfolio, funding requirements and ultimately shareholder distributions.

Affiliate C&E, which is the same as Affiliate Capex spend, by business segment
for 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
Affiliate C&E| 2022| | | 2021| | | 2020  
Millions of dollars| U.S.| Int'l.| Total| | | U.S.| Int'l.| Total| | | U.S.|
Int'l.| Total  
Upstream| $| -- | | $| 2,406 | | $| 2,406 | | | | $| 2 | | $| 2,404 | | $|
2,406 | | | | $| -- | | $| 2,917 | | $| 2,917 |  
Downstream| 768 | | 192 | | 960 | | | | 365 | | 396 | | 761 | | | | 324 | |
741 | | 1,065 |  
All Other| -- | | -- | | -- | | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | | -- | | -- | | --
|  
Affiliate C&E| $| 768 | | $| 2,598 | | $| 3,366 | | | | $| 367 | | $| 2,800 |
| $| 3,167 | | | | $| 324 | | $| 3,658 | | $| 3,982 |  
  
Affiliate C&E for 2022 was $3.4 billion, 6 percent higher than 2021.

The company monitors market conditions and can adjust future capital outlays
should conditions change.

Noncontrolling Interests The company had noncontrolling interests of $960
million at December 31, 2022 and $873 million at December 31, 2021.
Distributions to noncontrolling interests net of contributions totaled $114
million and $36 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Included within
noncontrolling interests at December 31, 2022 is $142 million of redeemable
noncontrolling interest.

Pension Obligations Information related to pension plan contributions is
included in Note 23 Employee Benefit Plans, under the heading "Cash
Contributions and Benefit Payments."

Contractual Obligations Information related to the company's significant
contractual obligations is included in Note 19 Short-Term Debt, in Note 20
Long-Term Debt and in Note 5 Lease Commitments. The aggregate amount of
interest due on these obligations, excluding leases, is: 2023 - $595; 2024 -
$536; 2025 - $476; 2026 - $395; 2027 - $340; after 2027 - $3,373.

Long-Term Unconditional Purchase Obligations and Commitments, Including
Throughput and Take-or-Pay Agreements Information related to these off-balance
sheet matters is included in Note 24 Other Contingencies and Commitments,
under the heading "Long-Term Unconditional Purchase Obligations and
Commitments, Including Throughput and Take-or-Pay Agreements."

Direct Guarantees Information related to guarantees is included in Note 24
Other Contingencies and Commitments under the heading "Guarantees."

Indemnifications Information related to indemnifications is included in Note
24 Other Contingencies and Commitments under the heading "Indemnifications."

47

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Financial Ratios and Metrics

The following represent several metrics the company believes are useful
measures to monitor the financial health of the company and its performance
over time:

Current Ratio Current assets divided by current liabilities, which indicates
the company's ability to repay its short-term liabilities with short-term
assets. The current ratio in all periods was adversely affected by the fact
that Chevron's inventories are valued on a last-in, first-out basis. At year-
end 2022, the book value of inventory was lower than replacement costs, based
on average acquisition costs during the year, by approximately $9.1 billion.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31|  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | | 2021| | | 2020|  
Current assets| $| 50,343 | | | | | $| 33,738 | | | | $| 26,078 | |  
Current liabilities| 34,208 | | | | | 26,791 | | | | 22,183 | |  
Current Ratio| 1.5| | | | 1.3| | | 1.2|  
  
Interest Coverage Ratio Income before income tax expense, plus interest and
debt expense and amortization of capitalized interest, less net income
attributable to noncontrolling interests, divided by before-tax interest
costs. This ratio indicates the company's ability to pay interest on
outstanding debt. The company's interest coverage ratio in 2022 was higher
than 2021 due to higher income.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31| |  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | | 2021| | 2020| |  
Income (Loss) Before Income Tax Expense | $| 49,674 | | | | | $| 21,639 | | |
$| (7,453)| | |  
Plus: Interest and debt expense | 516 | | | | | 712 | | | 697 | | |  
Plus: Before-tax amortization of capitalized interest| 199 | | | | | 215 | | |
205 | | |  
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests| 143 | | | | | 64 |
| | (18)| | |  
Subtotal for calculation| 50,246 | | | | | 22,502 | | | (6,533)| | |  
Total financing interest and debt costs| $| 630 | | | | | $| 775 | | | $| 735
| | |  
Interest Coverage Ratio| 79.8 | | | | | 29.0 | | | (8.9)| | |  
  
Free Cash Flow The cash provided by operating activities less capital
expenditures, which represents the cash available to creditors and investors
after investing in the business.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31|  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | | 2021| | 2020|  
Net cash provided by operating activities | $| 49,602 | | | | | $| 29,187 | |
| $| 10,577 | |  
Less: Capital expenditures| 11,974 | | | | | 8,056 | | | 8,922 | |  
Free Cash Flow| $| 37,628 | | | | | $| 21,131 | | | $| 1,655 | |  
  
Debt Ratio Total debt as a percentage of total debt plus Chevron Corporation
Stockholders' Equity, which indicates the company's leverage.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31| |  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | | 2021| | 2020| |  
Short-term debt| $| 1,964 | | | | | $| 256 | | | $| 1,548 | | |  
Long-term debt| 21,375 | | | | | 31,113 | | | 42,767 | | |  
Total debt | 23,339 | | | | | 31,369 | | | 44,315 | | |  
Total Chevron Corporation Stockholders' Equity| 159,282 | | | | | 139,067 | |
| 131,688 | | |  
Total debt plus total Chevron Corporation Stockholders' Equity| $| 182,621 | |
| | | $| 170,436 | | | $| 176,003 | | |  
Debt Ratio| 12.8 | | %| | | 18.4 | | %| 25.2 | | %|  
  
48

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Net Debt Ratio Total debt less cash and cash equivalents and marketable
securities as a percentage of total debt less cash and cash equivalents and
marketable securities, plus Chevron Corporation Stockholders' Equity, which
indicates the company's leverage, net of its cash balances.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31|  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | | 2021| | 2020|  
Short-term debt| $| 1,964 | | | | | $| 256 | | | $| 1,548 | |  
Long-term debt| 21,375 | | | | | 31,113 | | | 42,767 | |  
  
Total Debt

| 23,339 | | | | | 31,369 | | | 44,315 | |  
Less: Cash and cash equivalents| 17,678 | | | | | 5,640 | | | 5,596 | |  
| | | | | | | |  
Less: Marketable securities| 223 | | | | | 35 | | | 31 | |  
Total adjusted debt| 5,438 | | | | | 25,694 | | | 38,688 | |  
  
Total Chevron Corporation Stockholders' Equity

| 159,282 | | | | | 139,067 | | | 131,688 | |  
Total adjusted debt plus total Chevron Corporation Stockholders' Equity| $|
164,720 | | | | | $| 164,761 | | | $| 170,376 | |  
Net Debt Ratio| 3.3 | | %| | | 15.6 | | %| 22.7 | | %  
  
Capital Employed The sum of Chevron Corporation Stockholders' Equity, total
debt and noncontrolling interests, which represents the net investment in the
business.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31|  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | | 2021| | 2020|  
Chevron Corporation Stockholders' Equity| $| 159,282 | | | | | $| 139,067 | |
| $| 131,688 | |  
Plus: Short-term debt| 1,964 | | | | | 256 | | | 1,548 | |  
Plus: Long-term debt| 21,375 | | | | | 31,113 | | | 42,767 | |  
Plus: Noncontrolling interest| 960 | | | | | 873 | | | 1,038 | |  
Capital Employed at December 31| $| 183,581 | | | | | $| 171,309 | | | $|
177,041 | |  
  
Return on Average Capital Employed (ROCE) Net income attributable to Chevron
(adjusted for after-tax interest expense and noncontrolling interest) divided
by average capital employed. Average capital employed is computed by averaging
the sum of capital employed at the beginning and end of the year. ROCE is a
ratio intended to measure annual earnings as a percentage of historical
investments in the business.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31|  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | | 2021| | 2020|  
Net income attributable to Chevron| $| 35,465 | | | | | $| 15,625 | | | $|
(5,543)| |  
Plus: After-tax interest and debt expense | 476 | | | | | 662 | | | 658 | |  
Plus: Noncontrolling interest| 143 | | | | | 64 | | | (18)| |  
Net income after adjustments| 36,084 | | | | | 16,351 | | | (4,903)| |  
Average capital employed| $| 177,445 | | | | | $| 174,175 | | | $| 174,611 | |  
Return on Average Capital Employed| 20.3 | | %| | | 9.4 | | %| (2.8)| | %  
  
Return on Stockholders' Equity (ROSE) Net income attributable to Chevron
divided by average Chevron Corporation Stockholders' Equity. Average
stockholders' equity is computed by averaging the sum of stockholders' equity
at the beginning and end of the year. ROSE is a ratio intended to measure
earnings as a percentage of shareholder investments.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31|  
Millions of dollars| 2022| | | | 2021| | 2020|  
Net income attributable to Chevron| $| 35,465 | | | | | $| 15,625 | | | $|
(5,543)| |  
Chevron Corporation Stockholders' Equity at December 31| 159,282 | | | | |
139,067 | | | 131,688 | |  
Average Chevron Corporation Stockholders' Equity| 149,175 | | | | | 135,378 |
| | 137,951 | |  
Return on Average Stockholders' Equity| 23.8 | | %| | | 11.5 | | %| (4.0)| | %  
  
Financial and Derivative Instrument Market Risk

The market risk associated with the company's portfolio of financial and
derivative instruments is discussed below. The estimates of financial exposure
to market risk do not represent the company's projection of future market
changes. The actual impact of future market changes could differ materially
due to factors discussed elsewhere in this report, including those set forth
under the heading "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A.

49

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Derivative Commodity Instruments Chevron is exposed to market risks related to
the price volatility of crude oil, refined products, natural gas liquids,
natural gas, liquefied natural gas and refinery feedstocks. The company uses
derivative commodity instruments to manage these exposures on a portion of its
activity, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions for the
purchase, sale and storage of crude oil, refined products, natural gas
liquids, natural gas, liquefied natural gas and feedstock for company
refineries. The company also uses derivative commodity instruments for limited
trading purposes. The results of these activities were not material to the
company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows in 2022.

The company's market exposure positions are monitored on a daily basis by an
internal Risk Control group in accordance with the company's risk management
policies. The company's risk management practices and its compliance with
policies are reviewed by the Audit Committee of the company's Board of
Directors.

Derivatives beyond those designated as normal purchase and normal sale
contracts are recorded at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet with
resulting gains and losses reflected in income. Fair values are derived
principally from published market quotes and other independent third-party
quotes. The change in fair value of Chevron's derivative commodity instruments
in 2022 was not material to the company's results of operations.

The company uses the Monte Carlo simulation method as its Value-at-Risk (VaR)
model to estimate the maximum potential loss in fair value, at the 95 percent
confidence level with a one-day holding period, from the effect of adverse
changes in market conditions on derivative commodity instruments held or
issued. Based on these inputs, the VaR for the company's primary risk
exposures in the area of derivative commodity instruments at December 31, 2022
and 2021 was not material to the company's cash flows or results of
operations.

Foreign Currency The company may enter into foreign currency derivative
contracts to manage some of its foreign currency exposures. These exposures
include revenue and anticipated purchase transactions, including foreign
currency capital expenditures and lease commitments. The foreign currency
derivative contracts, if any, are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet
with resulting gains and losses reflected in income. There were no material
open foreign currency derivative contracts at December 31, 2022.

Interest Rates The company may enter into interest rate swaps from time to
time as part of its overall strategy to manage the interest rate risk on its
debt. Interest rate swaps, if any, are recorded at fair value on the balance
sheet with resulting gains and losses reflected in income. At year-end 2022,
the company had no interest rate swaps.

Transactions With Related Parties

Chevron enters into a number of business arrangements with related parties,
principally its equity affiliates. These arrangements include long-term supply
or offtake agreements and long-term purchase agreements. Refer to "Other
Information" in Note 15 Investments and Advances for further discussion.
Management believes these agreements have been negotiated on terms consistent
with those that would have been negotiated with an unrelated party.

Litigation and Other Contingencies

Ecuador Information related to Ecuador matters is included in Note 16
Litigation under the heading "Ecuador."

Climate Change Information related to climate change-related matters is
included in Note 16 Litigation under the heading "Climate Change."

Louisiana Information related to Louisiana coastal matters is included in Note
16 Litigation under the heading "Louisiana."

Environmental The following table displays the annual changes to the company's
before-tax environmental remediation reserves, including those for U.S.
federal Superfund sites and analogous sites under state laws.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Millions of dollars | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Balance at January 1| $| 960 | | | $| 1,139 | | | $| 1,234 |  
Net additions| 182 | | | 114 | | | 179 |  
Expenditures| (274)| | | (293)| | | (274)|  
Balance at December 31| $| 868 | | | $| 960 | | | $| 1,139 |  
  
The company records asset retirement obligations when there is a legal
obligation associated with the retirement of long-lived assets and the
liability can be reasonably estimated. These asset retirement obligations
include costs related to

50

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
environmental issues. The liability balance of approximately $12.7 billion for
asset retirement obligations at year-end 2022 is related primarily to upstream
properties.

For the company's other ongoing operating assets, such as refineries and
chemicals facilities, no provisions are made for exit or cleanup costs that
may be required when such assets reach the end of their useful lives unless a
decision to sell or otherwise decommission the facility has been made, as the
indeterminate settlement dates for the asset retirements prevent estimation of
the fair value of the asset retirement obligation.

Refer to the discussion below for additional information on environmental
matters and their impact on Chevron, and on the company's 2022 environmental
expenditures. Refer to Note 24 Other Contingencies and Commitments under the
heading "Environmental" for additional discussion of environmental remediation
provisions and year-end reserves. Refer also to Note 25 Asset Retirement
Obligations for additional discussion of the company's asset retirement
obligations.

Suspended Wells Information related to suspended wells is included in Note 21
Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Wells.

Income Taxes Information related to income tax contingencies is included in
Note 17 Taxes and in Note 24 Other Contingencies and Commitments under the
heading "Income Taxes."

Other Contingencies Information related to other contingencies is included in
Note 24 Other Contingencies and Commitments under the heading "Other
Contingencies."

Environmental Matters

The company is subject to various international and U.S. federal, state and
local environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and market-based
programs. These laws, regulations and programs continue to evolve and are
expected to increase in both number and complexity over time and govern not
only the manner in which the company conducts its operations, but also the
products it sells. Consideration of environmental issues and the responses to
those issues through international agreements and national, regional or state
legislation or regulations are integrated into the company's strategy and
planning, capital investment reviews and risk management tools and processes,
where applicable. They are also factored into the company's long-range supply,
demand and energy price forecasts. These forecasts reflect long-range effects
from renewable fuel penetration, energy efficiency standards, climate-related
policy actions, and demand response to oil and natural gas prices. In
addition, legislation and regulations intended to address hydraulic fracturing
also continue to evolve in many jurisdictions where we operate. Refer to "Risk
Factors" in Part I, Item 1A, on pages 20 through 26 for a discussion of some
of the inherent risks of increasingly restrictive environmental and other
regulation that could materially impact the company's results of operations or
financial condition. Refer to Business Environment and Outlook on pages 32 and
33 for a discussion of legislative and regulatory efforts to address climate
change.

Most of the costs of complying with existing laws and regulations pertaining
to company operations and products are embedded in the normal costs of doing
business. However, it is not possible to predict with certainty the amount of
additional investments in new or existing technology or facilities or the
amounts of increased operating costs to be incurred in the future to prevent,
control, reduce or eliminate releases of hazardous materials or other
pollutants into the environment; remediate and restore areas damaged by prior
releases of hazardous materials; or comply with new environmental laws or
regulations. Although these costs may be significant to the results of
operations in any single period, the company does not presently expect them to
have a material adverse effect on the company's liquidity or financial
position.

Accidental leaks and spills requiring cleanup may occur in the ordinary course
of business. The company may incur expenses for corrective actions at various
owned and previously owned facilities and at third-party-owned waste disposal
sites used by the company. An obligation may arise when operations are closed
or sold or at non-Chevron sites where company products have been handled or
disposed of. Most of the expenditures to fulfill these obligations relate to
facilities and sites where past operations followed practices and procedures
that were considered acceptable at the time but now require investigative or
remedial work or both to meet current standards.

Using definitions and guidelines established by the American Petroleum
Institute, Chevron estimated its worldwide environmental spending in 2022 at
approximately $2.0 billion for its consolidated companies. Included in these
expenditures were approximately $0.2 billion of environmental capital
expenditures and $1.8 billion of costs associated with the prevention,
control, abatement or elimination of hazardous substances and pollutants from
operating, closed or divested sites, and the decommissioning and restoration
of sites.

51

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
For 2023, total worldwide environmental capital expenditures are estimated at
$0.2 billion. These capital costs are in addition to the ongoing costs of
complying with environmental regulations and the costs to remediate previously
contaminated sites.

Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions

Management makes many estimates and assumptions in the application of
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(GAAP) that may have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial
statements and related disclosures and on the comparability of such
information over different reporting periods. Such estimates and assumptions
affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well
as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Estimates and assumptions
are based on management's experience and other information available prior to
the issuance of the financial statements. Materially different results can
occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known.

The discussion in this section of "critical" accounting estimates and
assumptions is according to the disclosure guidelines of the SEC, wherein:

1.the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the levels of
subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters,
or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and

2.the impact of the estimates and assumptions on the company's financial
condition or operating performance is material.

The development and selection of accounting estimates and assumptions,
including those deemed "critical," and the associated disclosures in this
discussion have been discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors. The areas of accounting and the associated "critical" estimates and
assumptions made by the company are as follows:

Oil and Gas Reserves Crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas reserves
are estimates of future production that impact certain asset and expense
accounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Proved reserves
are the estimated quantities of oil and gas that geoscience and engineering
data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be economically producible in
the future under existing economic conditions, operating methods and
government regulations. Proved reserves include both developed and undeveloped
volumes. Proved developed reserves represent volumes expected to be recovered
through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved
undeveloped reserves are volumes expected to be recovered from new wells on
undrilled proved acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major
expenditure is required for recompletion. Variables impacting Chevron's
estimated volumes of crude oil and natural gas reserves include field
performance, available technology, commodity prices, and development,
production and carbon costs.

The estimates of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas reserves are
important to the timing of expense recognition for costs incurred and to the
valuation of certain oil and gas producing assets. Impacts of oil and gas
reserves on Chevron's Consolidated Financial Statements, using the successful
efforts method of accounting, include the following:

1.Amortization - Capitalized exploratory drilling and development costs are
depreciated on a unit-of-production (UOP) basis using proved developed
reserves. Acquisition costs of proved properties are amortized on a UOP basis
using total proved reserves. During 2022, Chevron's UOP Depreciation,
Depletion and Amortization (DD&A) for oil and gas properties was $10.8
billion, and proved developed reserves at the beginning of 2022 were 6.6
billion barrels for consolidated companies. If the estimates of proved
reserves used in the UOP calculations for consolidated operations had been
lower by five percent across all oil and gas properties, UOP DD&A in 2022
would have increased by approximately $600 million.

2.Impairment - Oil and gas reserves are used in assessing oil and gas
producing properties for impairment. A significant reduction in the estimated
reserves of a property would trigger an impairment review. Proved reserves
(and, in some cases, a portion of unproved resources) are used to estimate
future production volumes in the cash flow model. For a further discussion of
estimates and assumptions used in impairment assessments, see Impairment of
Properties, Plant and Equipment and Investments in Affiliates below.

Refer to Table V, "Reserve Quantity Information," for the changes in proved
reserve estimates for each of the three years ended December 31, 2020, 2021
and 2022, and to Table VII, "Changes in the Standardized Measure of Discounted
Future Net Cash Flows From Proved Reserves" for estimates of proved reserve
values for each of the three years ended December 31, 2020, 2021 and 2022.

52

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
This Oil and Gas Reserves commentary should be read in conjunction with the
Properties, Plant and Equipment section of Note 1 Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies, which includes a description of the "successful efforts"
method of accounting for oil and gas exploration and production activities.

Impairment of Properties, Plant and Equipment and Investments in Affiliates
The company assesses its properties, plant and equipment (PP&E) for possible
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of
an asset exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows expected from the asset,
an impairment charge is recorded for the excess of the carrying value of the
asset over its estimated fair value.

Determination as to whether and how much an asset is impaired involves
management estimates on highly uncertain matters, such as future commodity
prices, operating expenses, carbon costs, production profiles, the pace of the
energy transition, and the outlook for global or regional market supply-and-
demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas liquids, natural gas, commodity
chemicals and refined products. However, the impairment reviews and
calculations are based on assumptions that are generally consistent with the
company's business plans and long-term investment decisions. Refer also to the
discussion of impairments of properties, plant and equipment in Note 18
Properties, Plant and Equipment and to the section on Properties, Plant and
Equipment in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.

The company performs impairment assessments when triggering events arise to
determine whether any write-down in the carrying value of an asset or asset
group is required. For example, when significant downward revisions to crude
oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas reserves are made for any single
field or concession, an impairment review is performed to determine if the
carrying value of the asset remains recoverable. Similarly, a significant
downward revision in the company's crude oil, natural gas liquids or natural
gas price outlook would trigger impairment reviews for impacted upstream
assets. In addition, impairments could occur due to changes in national, state
or local environmental regulations or laws, including those designed to stop
or impede the development or production of oil and gas. Also, if the
expectation of sale of a particular asset or asset group in any period has
been deemed more likely than not, an impairment review is performed, and if
the estimated net proceeds exceed the carrying value of the asset or asset
group, no impairment charge is required. Such calculations are reviewed each
period until the asset or asset group is disposed. Assets that are not
impaired on a held-and-used basis could possibly become impaired if a decision
is made to sell such assets. That is, the assets would be impaired if they are
classified as held-for-sale and the estimated proceeds from the sale, less
costs to sell, are less than the assets' associated carrying values.

Investments in common stock of affiliates that are accounted for under the
equity method, as well as investments in other securities of these equity
investees, are reviewed for impairment when the fair value of the investment
falls below the company's carrying value. When this occurs, a determination
must be made as to whether this loss is other-than-temporary, in which case
the investment is impaired. Because of the number of differing assumptions
potentially affecting whether an investment is impaired in any period or the
amount of the impairment, a sensitivity analysis is not practicable.

A sensitivity analysis of the impact on earnings for these periods if other
assumptions had been used in impairment reviews and impairment calculations is
not practicable, given the broad range of the company's PP&E and the number of
assumptions involved in the estimates. That is, favorable changes to some
assumptions might have avoided the need to impair any assets in these periods,
whereas unfavorable changes might have caused an additional unknown number of
other assets to become impaired, or resulted in larger impacts on impaired
assets.

Asset Retirement Obligations In the determination of fair value for an asset
retirement obligation (ARO), the company uses various assumptions and
judgments, including such factors as the existence of a legal obligation,
estimated amounts and timing of settlements, discount and inflation rates, and
the expected impact of advances in technology and process improvements. A
sensitivity analysis of the ARO impact on earnings for 2022 is not
practicable, given the broad range of the company's long-lived assets and the
number of assumptions involved in the estimates. That is, favorable changes to
some assumptions would have reduced estimated future obligations, thereby
lowering accretion expense and amortization costs, whereas unfavorable changes
would have the opposite effect. Refer to Note 25 Asset Retirement Obligations
for additional discussions on asset retirement obligations.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Note 23 Employee Benefit Plans
includes information on the funded status of the company's pension and other
postretirement benefit (OPEB) plans reflected on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet; the components of pension and OPEB expense reflected on the
Consolidated Statement of Income; and the related underlying assumptions.

53

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
The determination of pension plan expense and obligations is based on a number
of actuarial assumptions. Two critical assumptions are the expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate applied to pension plan
obligations. Critical assumptions in determining expense and obligations for
OPEB plans, which provide for certain health care and life insurance benefits
for qualifying retired employees and which are not funded, are the discount
rate and the assumed health care cost-trend rates. Information related to the
company's processes to develop these assumptions is included in Note 23
Employee Benefit Plans under the relevant headings. Actual rates may vary
significantly from estimates because of unanticipated changes beyond the
company's control.

For 2022, the company used an expected long-term rate of return of 6.6 percent
and a discount rate for service costs of 3.5 percent and a discount rate for
interest cost of 2.7 percent for the primary U.S. pension plan. The actual
return for 2022 was (17.8) percent. For the 10 years ended December 31, 2022,
actual asset returns averaged 5.7 percent for this plan. Additionally, with
the exception of three years within this 10-year period, actual asset returns
for this plan equaled or exceeded 6.6 percent during each year.

Total pension expense for 2022 was $763 million. An increase in the expected
long-term return on plan assets or the discount rate would reduce pension plan
expense, and vice versa. As an indication of the sensitivity of pension
expense to the long-term rate of return assumption, a 1 percent increase in
this assumption for the company's primary U.S. pension plan, which accounted
for about 55 percent of companywide pension expense, would have reduced total
pension plan expense for 2022 by approximately $75 million. A 1 percent
increase in the discount rates for this same plan would have reduced pension
expense for 2022 by approximately $177 million.

The aggregate funded status recognized at December 31, 2022, was a net
liability of approximately $1.8 billion. An increase in the discount rate
would decrease the pension obligation, thus changing the funded status of a
plan. At December 31, 2022, the company used a discount rate of 5.2 percent to
measure the obligations for the primary U.S. pension plan. As an indication of
the sensitivity of pension liabilities to the discount rate assumption, a 0.25
percent increase in the discount rate applied to the company's primary U.S.
pension plan, which accounted for about 63 percent of the companywide pension
obligation, would have reduced the plan obligation by approximately $239
million, and would have decreased the plan's underfunded status from
approximately $475 million to $236 million.

For the company's OPEB plans, expense for 2022 was $89 million, and the total
liability, all unfunded at the end of 2022, was $1.9 billion. For the primary
U.S. OPEB plan, the company used a discount rate for service cost of 3.1
percent and a discount rate for interest cost of 2.1 percent to measure
expense in 2022, and a 5.2 percent discount rate to measure the benefit
obligations at December 31, 2022. Discount rate changes, similar to those used
in the pension sensitivity analysis, resulted in an immaterial impact on 2022
OPEB expense and OPEB liabilities at the end of 2022.

Differences between the various assumptions used to determine expense and the
funded status of each plan and actual experience are included in actuarial
gain/loss. Refer to page 90 in Note 23 Employee Benefit Plans for more
information on the $3.4 billion of before-tax actuarial losses recorded by the
company as of December 31, 2022. In addition, information related to company
contributions is included on page 93 in Note 23 Employee Benefit Plans under
the heading "Cash Contributions and Benefit Payments."

Contingent Losses Management also makes judgments and estimates in recording
liabilities for claims, litigation, tax matters and environmental remediation.
Actual costs can frequently vary from estimates for a variety of reasons. For
example, the costs for settlement of claims and litigation can vary from
estimates based on differing interpretations of laws, opinions on culpability
and assessments on the amount of damages. Similarly, liabilities for
environmental remediation are subject to change because of changes in laws,
regulations and their interpretation, the determination of additional
information on the extent and nature of site contamination, and improvements
in technology.

Under the accounting rules, a liability is generally recorded for these types
of contingencies if management determines the loss to be both probable and
estimable. The company generally reports these losses as "Operating expenses"
or "Selling, general and administrative expenses" on the Consolidated
Statement of Income. An exception to this handling is for income tax matters,
for which benefits are recognized only if management determines the tax
position is more likely than not (i.e., likelihood greater than 50 percent) to
be allowed by the tax jurisdiction. For additional discussion of income tax
uncertainties, refer to Note 24 Other Contingencies and Commitments under the
heading "Income Taxes." Refer also to the business segment discussions
elsewhere in this section for the effect on earnings from losses associated
with certain litigation, environmental remediation and tax matters for the
three years ended December 31, 2022.

An estimate as to the sensitivity to earnings for these periods if other
assumptions had been used in recording these liabilities is not practicable
because of the number of contingencies that must be assessed, the number of
underlying

54

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
assumptions and the wide range of reasonably possible outcomes, both in terms
of the probability of loss and the estimates of such loss. For further
information, refer to "Changes in management's estimates and assumptions may
have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements and
financial or operational performance in any given period" in "Risk Factors" in
Part I, Item 1A, on pages 25 and 26.

New Accounting Standards

Refer to Note 4 New Accounting Standards for information regarding new
accounting standards.

55

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

Quarterly Results

Unaudited

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| 2021  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts| 4th Q| | 3rd Q| | 2nd Q| | 1st
Q| | 4th Q| | 3rd Q| | 2nd Q| | 1st Q  
Revenues and Other Income| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Sales and other operating revenues

| $| 54,523 | | | $| 63,508 | | | $| 65,372 | | | $| 52,314 | | | $| 45,861 |
| | $| 42,552 | | | $| 36,117 | | | $| 31,076 |  
  
Income from equity affiliates

| 1,623 | | | 2,410 | | | 2,467 | | | 2,085 | | | 1,657 | | | 1,647 | | |
1,442 | | | 911 |  
  
Other income

| 327 | | | 726 | | | 923 | | | (26)| | | 611 | | | 511 | | | 38 | | | 42 |  
Total Revenues and Other Income| 56,473 | | | 66,644 | | | 68,762 | | | 54,373
| | | 48,129 | | | 44,710 | | | 37,597 | | | 32,029 |  
Costs and Other Deductions| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Purchased crude oil and products

| 32,570 | | | 38,751 | | | 40,684 | | | 33,411 | | | 28,046 | | | 24,570 | |
| 21,446 | | | 18,187 |  
  
Operating expenses

| 6,401 | | | 6,357 | | | 6,318 | | | 5,638 | | | 5,507 | | | 5,353 | | |
4,899 | | | 4,967 |  
  
Selling, general and administrative expenses

| 1,454 | | | 1,028 | | | 863 | | | 967 | | | 1,271 | | | 657 | | | 1,096 | |
| 990 |  
  
Exploration expenses

| 453 | | | 116 | | | 196 | | | 209 | | | 192| | 158| | 113| | 86  
  
Depreciation, depletion and amortization

| 4,764 | | | 4,201 | | | 3,700 | | | 3,654 | | | 4,813 | | | 4,304 | | |
4,522 | | | 4,286 |  
  
Taxes other than on income

| 864 | | | 1,046 | | | 882 | | | 1,240 | | | 1,074 | | | 1,339 | | | 749 | |
| 801 |  
  
Interest and debt expense

| 123 | | | 128 | | | 129 | | | 136 | | | 155 | | | 174 | | | 185 | | | 198 |  
  
Other components of net periodic benefit costs

| 36 | | | 208 | | | (13)| | | 64 | | | 86 | | | 100 | | | 165 | | | 337 |  
Total Costs and Other Deductions| 46,665 | | | 51,835 | | | 52,759 | | |
45,319 | | | 41,144 | | | 36,655 | | | 33,175 | | | 29,852 |  
Income (Loss) Before Income Tax Expense| 9,808 | | | 14,809 | | | 16,003 | | |
9,054 | | | 6,985 | | | 8,055 | | | 4,422 | | | 2,177 |  
Income Tax Expense (Benefit)| 3,430 | | | 3,571 | | | 4,288 | | | 2,777 | | |
1,903 | | | 1,940 | | | 1,328 | | | 779 |  
Net Income (Loss)| $| 6,378 | | | $| 11,238 | | | $| 11,715 | | | $| 6,277 | |
| $| 5,082 | | | $| 6,115 | | | $| 3,094 | | | $| 1,398 |  
  
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests

| 25 | | | 7 | | | 93 | | | 18 | | | 27 | | | 4 | | | 12 | | | 21 |  
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation| $| 6,353 | | | $|
11,231 | | | $| 11,622 | | | $| 6,259 | | | $| 5,055 | | | $| 6,111 | | | $|
3,082 | | | $| 1,377 |  
Per Share of Common Stock| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
- Basic

| $| 3.34 | | | $| 5.81 | | | $| 5.98 | | | $| 3.23 | | | $| 2.63 | | | $|
3.19 | | | $| 1.61 | | | $| 0.72 |  
  
- Diluted

| $| 3.33 | | | $| 5.78 | | | $| 5.95 | | | $| 3.22 | | | $| 2.63 | | | $|
3.19 | | | $| 1.60 | | | $| 0.72 |  
Dividends per share| $| 1.42 | | | $| 1.42 | | | $| 1.42 | | | $| 1.42 | | |
$| 1.34 | | | $| 1.34 | | | $| 1.34 | | | $| 1.29 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
56

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | | |  
| Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements |  
| |  
|

To the Stockholders of Chevron Corporation

Management of Chevron Corporation is responsible for preparing the
accompanying consolidated financial statements and the related information
appearing in this report. The statements were prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and
fairly represent the transactions and financial position of the company. The
financial statements include amounts that are based on management's best
estimates and judgments.

As stated in its report included herein, the independent registered public
accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has audited the company's
consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).

The Board of Directors of Chevron has an Audit Committee composed of directors
who are not officers or employees of the company. The Audit Committee meets
regularly with members of management, the internal auditors and the
independent registered public accounting firm to review accounting, internal
control, auditing and financial reporting matters. Both the internal auditors
and the independent registered public accounting firm have free and direct
access to the Audit Committee without the presence of management.

The company's management has evaluated, with the participation of the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the
company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of December 31, 2022. Based on that
evaluation, management concluded that the company's disclosure controls are
effective in ensuring that information required to be recorded, processed,
summarized and reported are done within the time periods specified in the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms.

|  
| |  
| Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting|  
|

The company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). The company's management, including the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation
of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial
reporting based on the Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). Based on the results of this evaluation, the company's management
concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2022.

The effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2022, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report
included herein.

|  
| | | | | |  
|

![cvx-20221231_g5.gif](cvx-20221231_g5.gif)

| |

![cvx-20221231_g6.gif](cvx-20221231_g6.gif)

| |

![cvx-20221231_g7.gif](cvx-20221231_g7.gif)

|  
| | | | | |  
| Michael K. Wirth| | Pierre R. Breber| | David A. Inchausti|  
| Chairman of the Board| | Vice President| | Vice President|  
| and Chief Executive Officer| | and Chief Financial Officer| | and
Controller|  
| | | | | |  
| February 23, 2023| | | | |  
| | | | | |  
  
  

57

  

* * *

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  
| Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm |  
|

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Chevron Corporation

|  
| Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial
Reporting |  
|

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Chevron
Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and
2021, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive
income, of equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes and financial statement
schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) (collectively
referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited
the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).

|  
|

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations
and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.

|  
| |  
|

  

Basis for Opinions

The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express
opinions on the Company's consolidated financial statements and on the
Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We
are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent
with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities
laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the PCAOB.

  

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.

  

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing
procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated
financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures
that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test
basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our
audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

|  
| |  
|

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

  

  

|  
  
58

  

* * *

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

|  
|

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the
current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that
(i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated
financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective,
or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not
alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken
as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below,
providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts
or disclosures to which it relates.

|  
|

The Impact of Proved Crude Oil and Natural Gas Reserves on Upstream Property,
Plant, and Equipment, Net

As described in Notes 1 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company's upstream property, plant and equipment, net balance was $125.6
billion as of December 31, 2022, and depreciation, depletion and amortization
expense was $14.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. The Company
follows the successful efforts method of accounting for crude oil and natural
gas exploration and production activities. Depreciation and depletion of all
capitalized costs of proved crude oil and natural gas producing properties,
except mineral interests, are expensed using the unit-of-production method,
generally by individual field, as the proved developed reserves are produced.
Depletion expenses for capitalized costs of proved mineral interests are
recognized using the unit-of-production method by individual field as the
related proved reserves are produced. As disclosed by management, variables
impacting the Company's estimated volumes of crude oil and natural gas
reserves include field performance, available technology, commodity prices,
and development, production and carbon costs. Reserves are estimated by
Company asset teams composed of earth scientists and engineers. As part of the
internal control process related to reserves estimation, the Company maintains
a Reserves Advisory Committee (RAC) (the Company's earth scientists, engineers
and RAC are collectively referred to as "management's specialists").

  

The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures
relating to the impact of proved crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural
gas reserves on upstream property, plant, and equipment, net is a critical
audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by management, including the use
of management's specialists, when developing the estimates of proved crude
oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas reserve volumes, which in turn led to
(ii) a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity, and effort in performing
procedures and evaluating audit evidence obtained related to the data, methods
and assumptions used by management and its specialists in developing the
estimates of proved crude oil and natural gas reserve volumes.

  

Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit
evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated
financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of
controls relating to management's estimates of proved crude oil, natural gas
liquids and natural gas reserve volumes. The work of management's specialists
was used in performing the procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of the
proved crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas reserve volumes. As a
basis for using this work, the specialists' qualifications were understood and
the Company's relationship with the specialists was assessed. The procedures
performed also included evaluation of the methods and assumptions used by the
specialists, tests of the data used by the specialists and an evaluation of
the specialists' findings.

|  
|

.

|  
|

![cvx-20221231_g8.jpg](cvx-20221231_g8.jpg)

|  
| PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP|  
| San Francisco, California|  
| February 23, 2023|  
|

We have served as the Company's auditor since 1935.

|  
  
59

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Consolidated Statement of Income |

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | | | | |  
| | Year ended December 31|  
| | 2022| | | 2021| | 2020|  
| Revenues and Other Income| | | | | | |  
| Sales and other operating revenues| $| 235,717 | | | | $| 155,606 | | | $|
94,471 | |  
| Income (loss) from equity affiliates| 8,585 | | | | 5,657 | | | (472)| |  
| Other income| 1,950 | | | | 1,202 | | | 693 | |  
| Total Revenues and Other Income| 246,252 | | | | 162,465 | | | 94,692 | |  
| Costs and Other Deductions| | | | | | |  
| Purchased crude oil and products| 145,416 | | | | 92,249 | | | 52,148 | |  
| Operating expenses| 24,714 | | | | 20,726 | | | 20,323 | |  
| Selling, general and administrative expenses| 4,312 | | | | 4,014 | | |
4,213 | |  
| Exploration expenses| 974 | | | | 549 | | | 1,537 | |  
| Depreciation, depletion and amortization| 16,319 | | | | 17,925 | | | 19,508
| |  
| Taxes other than on income| 4,032 | | | | 3,963 | | | 2,839 | |  
| Interest and debt expense| 516 | | | | 712 | | | 697 | |  
| Other components of net periodic benefit costs| 295 | | | | 688 | | | 880 |
|  
| Total Costs and Other Deductions| 196,578 | | | | 140,826 | | | 102,145 | |  
| Income (Loss) Before Income Tax Expense| 49,674 | | | | 21,639 | | |
(7,453)| |  
| Income Tax Expense (Benefit)| 14,066 | | | | 5,950 | | | (1,892)| |  
| Net Income (Loss)| 35,608 | | | | 15,689 | | | (5,561)| |  
| Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests| 143 | | |
| 64 | | | (18)| |  
| Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation| $| 35,465 | | | | $|
15,625 | | | $| (5,543)| |  
| Per Share of Common Stock| | | | | | |  
| Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation| | | | | | |  
| \- Basic| $| 18.36 | | | | $| 8.15 | | | $| (2.96)| |  
| \- Diluted| $| 18.28 | | | | $| 8.14 | | | $| (2.96)| |  
| See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.|  
| | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | |  
  
60

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars|  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Year ended December 31|  
| | 2022| | | 2021| | | 2020|  
| Net Income (Loss)| $| 35,608 | | | | $| 15,689 | | | | $| (5,561)| |  
| Currency translation adjustment| | | | | | | |  
| Unrealized net change arising during period| (41)| | | | (55)| | | | 35 | |  
| Unrealized holding gain (loss) on securities| | | | | | | |  
| Net gain (loss) arising during period| (1)| | | | (1)| | | | (2)| |  
| Derivatives| | | | | | | |  
| Net derivatives gain (loss) on hedge transactions| 65 | | | | (6)| | | | --
| |  
| | | | | | | | |  
| Reclassification to net income| (80)| | | | 6 | | | | -- | |  
| Income taxes on derivatives transactions| 3 | | | | -- | | | | -- | |  
| Total| (12)| | | | -- | | | | -- | |  
| Defined benefit plans| | | | | | | |  
| Actuarial gain (loss)| | | | | | | |  
| Amortization to net income of net actuarial loss and settlements| 599 | | |
| 1,069 | | | | 1,107 | |  
| Actuarial gain (loss) arising during period| 1,050 | | | | 1,244 | | | |
(2,004)| |  
| Prior service credits (cost)| | | | | | | |  
| Amortization to net income of net prior service costs and curtailments|
(19)| | | | (14)| | | | (23)| |  
| Prior service (costs) credits arising during period| (96)| | | | -- | | | |
-- | |  
| Defined benefit plans sponsored by equity affiliates - benefit (cost) | 100
| | | | 127 | | | | (104)| |  
| Income tax benefit (cost) on defined benefit plans| (489)| | | | (647)| | |
| 369 | |  
| Total| 1,145 | | | | 1,779 | | | | (655)| |  
| Other Comprehensive Gain (Loss), Net of Tax| 1,091 | | | | 1,723 | | | |
(622)| |  
| Comprehensive Income (Loss)| 36,699 | | | | 17,412 | | | | (6,183)| |  
| Comprehensive loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests| (143)|
| | | (64)| | | | 18 | |  
| Comprehensive Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation| $| 36,556 |
| | | $| 17,348 | | | | $| (6,165)| |  
| See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.| | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
61

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Consolidated Balance Sheet|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | |  
| | At December 31|  
| | 2022| | 2021|  
| Assets| | | |  
| Cash and cash equivalents| $| 17,678 | | | $| 5,640 | |  
| | | | |  
| Marketable securities| 223 | | | 35 | |  
|

Accounts and notes receivable (less allowance: 2022 - $457; 2021 - $303)

| 20,456 | | | 18,419 | |  
| Inventories:| | | |  
| Crude oil and products| 5,866 | | | 4,248 | |  
| Chemicals| 515 | | | 565 | |  
| Materials, supplies and other| 1,866 | | | 1,982 | |  
| Total inventories| 8,247 | | | 6,795 | |  
| Prepaid expenses and other current assets| 3,739 | | | 2,849 | |  
| Total Current Assets| 50,343 | | | 33,738 | |  
|

Long-term receivables, net (less allowances: 2022 - $552; 2021 - $442)

| 1,069 | | | 603 | |  
| Investments and advances| 45,238 | | | 40,696 | |  
| Properties, plant and equipment, at cost| 327,785 | | | 336,045 | |  
| Less: Accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization| 184,194 | | |
189,084 | |  
| Properties, plant and equipment, net| 143,591 | | | 146,961 | |  
| Deferred charges and other assets| 12,310 | | | 12,384 | |  
| Goodwill| 4,722 | | | 4,385 | |  
| Assets held for sale| 436 | | | 768 | |  
| Total Assets| $| 257,709 | | | $| 239,535 | |  
| Liabilities and Equity| | | |  
|

Short-term debt

| $| 1,964 | | | $| 256 | |  
| Accounts payable| 18,955 | | | 16,454 | |  
| Accrued liabilities| 7,486 | | | 6,972 | |  
| Federal and other taxes on income| 4,381 | | | 1,700 | |  
| Other taxes payable| 1,422 | | | 1,409 | |  
| Total Current Liabilities| 34,208 | | | 26,791 | |  
|

Long-term debt1

| 21,375 | | | 31,113 | |  
| | | | |  
| Deferred credits and other noncurrent obligations| 20,396 | | | 20,778 | |  
| Noncurrent deferred income taxes| 17,131 | | | 14,665 | |  
| Noncurrent employee benefit plans| 4,357 | | | 6,248 | |  
|

Total Liabilities2

| $| 97,467 | | | $| 99,595 | |  
|

Preferred stock (authorized 100,000,000 shares; $1.00 par value; none issued)

| -- | | | -- | |  
|

Common stock (authorized 6,000,000,000 shares; $0.75 par value; 2,442,676,580
shares

issued at December 31, 2022 and 2021)

| 1,832 | | | 1,832 | |  
| Capital in excess of par value| 18,660 | | | 17,282 | |  
| Retained earnings| 190,024 | | | 165,546 | |  
| Accumulated other comprehensive losses| (2,798)| | | (3,889)| |  
| Deferred compensation and benefit plan trust| (240)| | | (240)| |  
|

Treasury stock, at cost (2022 - 527,460,237 shares; 2021 - 512,870,523 shares)

| (48,196)| | | (41,464)| |  
| Total Chevron Corporation Stockholders' Equity| 159,282 | | | 139,067 | |  
|

Noncontrolling interests (includes redeemable noncontrolling interest of $142
and $135 at December 31, 2022 and 2021)

| 960 | | | 873 | |  
| Total Equity| 160,242 | | | 139,940 | |  
| Total Liabilities and Equity| $| 257,709 | | | $| 239,535 | |  
|

1 Includes finance lease liabilities of $403 and $449 at December 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively.

| | | |  
|

2 Refer to Note 24 Other Contingencies and Commitments.

| | | |  
| See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.| | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
|  
|  
  
62

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars|  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | | | |  
| | Year ended December 31|  
| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020|  
| Operating Activities| | | | | |  
| Net Income (Loss)| $| 35,608 | | | $| 15,689 | | | $| (5,561)| |  
| Adjustments| | | | | |  
| Depreciation, depletion and amortization| 16,319 | | | 17,925 | | | 19,508 |
|  
| Dry hole expense| 486 | | | 118 | | | 1,036 | |  
| Distributions more (less) than income from equity affiliates| (4,730)| | |
(1,998)| | | 2,015 | |  
| Net before-tax gains on asset retirements and sales| (550)| | | (1,021)| | |
(760)| |  
| Net foreign currency effects| (412)| | | (7)| | | 619 | |  
| Deferred income tax provision| 2,124 | | | 700 | | | (3,604)| |  
| Net decrease (increase) in operating working capital| 2,125 | | | (1,361)| |
| (1,652)| |  
| Decrease (increase) in long-term receivables| 153 | | | 21 | | | 296 | |  
| Net decrease (increase) in other deferred charges| (212)| | | (320)| | |
(248)| |  
| Cash contributions to employee pension plans| (1,322)| | | (1,751)| | |
(1,213)| |  
| Other| 13 | | | 1,192 | | | 141 | |  
| Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities| 49,602 | | | 29,187 | | | 10,577
| |  
| Investing Activities| | | | | |  
| Acquisition of businesses, net of cash received| (2,862)| | | -- | | | 373 |
|  
| Capital expenditures| (11,974)| | | (8,056)| | | (8,922)| |  
| Proceeds and deposits related to asset sales and returns of investment|
2,635 | | | 1,791 | | | 2,968 | |  
| | | | | | |  
| Net sales (purchases) of marketable securities| 117 | | | (1)| | | 35 | |  
| Net repayment (borrowing) of loans by equity affiliates| (24)| | | 401 | | |
(1,419)| |  
| Net Cash Used for Investing Activities| (12,108)| | | (5,865)| | | (6,965)|
|  
| Financing Activities| | | | | |  
| Net borrowings (repayments) of short-term obligations| 263 | | | (5,572)| |
| 651 | |  
| Proceeds from issuances of long-term debt| -- | | | -- | | | 12,308 | |  
| Repayments of long-term debt and other financing obligations| (8,742)| | |
(7,364)| | | (5,489)| |  
| Cash dividends - common stock| (10,968)| | | (10,179)| | | (9,651)| |  
| Net contributions from (distributions to) noncontrolling interests| (114)| |
| (36)| | | (24)| |  
| Net sales (purchases) of treasury shares| (5,417)| | | 38 | | | (1,531)| |  
| Net Cash Provided by (Used for) Financing Activities| (24,978)| | |
(23,113)| | | (3,736)| |  
|

Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash

| (190)| | | (151)| | | (50)| |  
| Net Change in Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash| 12,326 | | | 58 |
| | (174)| |  
| Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at January 1| 6,795 | | | 6,737 |
| | 6,911 | |  
| Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at December 31| $| 19,121 | | |
$| 6,795 | | | $| 6,737 | |  
| See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.|  
| | | | | | |  
| |  
| |  
| |  
| |  
| |  
  
63

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Consolidated Statement of Equity|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Amounts in millions of dollars|  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | Acc. Other| Treasury| Chevron Corp.| | | |  
| Common| Retained| Comprehensive| Stock| Stockholders'| | Noncontrolling| |
Total  
|

Stock1

| Earnings| Income (Loss)|

(at cost)

| Equity| | Interests| | Equity  
Balance at December 31, 2019| $| 18,857 | | $| 174,945 | | $| (4,990)| | $|
(44,599)| | $| 144,213 | | | $| 995 | | | $| 145,208 |  
Treasury stock transactions| 84 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 84 | | | -- | | | 84
|  
  
Noble acquisition2

| (520)| | -- | | -- | | 4,629 | | 4,109 | | | 779 | | | 4,888 |  
Net income (loss)| -- | | (5,543)| | -- | | -- | | (5,543)| | | (18)| | |
(5,561)|  
  
Cash dividends ($5.16 per share)

| -- | | (9,651)| | -- | | -- | | (9,651)| | | (24)| | | (9,675)|  
Stock dividends| -- | | (5)| | -- | | -- | | (5)| | | -- | | | (5)|  
Other comprehensive income| -- | | -- | | (622)| | -- | | (622)| | | -- | | |
(622)|  
Purchases of treasury shares| -- | | -- | | -- | | (1,757)| | (1,757)| | | --
| | | (1,757)|  
Issuances of treasury shares| -- | | -- | | -- | | 229 | | 229 | | | -- | | |
229 |  
Other changes, net| -- | | 631 | | -- | | -- | | 631 | | | (694)| | | (63)|  
Balance at December 31, 2020| $| 18,421 | | $| 160,377 | | $| (5,612)| | $|
(41,498)| | $| 131,688 | | | $| 1,038 | | | $| 132,726 |  
Treasury stock transactions| 315 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 315 | | | -- | | |
315 |  
NBLX acquisition| 138 | | (148)| | -- | | 377 | | 367 | | | (321)| | | 46 |  
Net income (loss)| -- | | 15,625 | | -- | | -- | | 15,625 | | | 64 | | |
15,689 |  
  
Cash dividends ($5.31 per share)

| -- | | (10,179)| | -- | | -- | | (10,179)| | | (53)| | | (10,232)|  
Stock dividends| -- | | (3)| | -- | | -- | | (3)| | | -- | | | (3)|  
Other comprehensive income| -- | | -- | | 1,723 | | -- | | 1,723 | | | -- | |
| 1,723 |  
Purchases of treasury shares| -- | | -- | | -- | | (1,383)| | (1,383)| | | --
| | | (1,383)|  
Issuances of treasury shares| -- | | -- | | -- | | 1,040 | | 1,040 | | | -- |
| | 1,040 |  
Other changes, net| -- | | (126)| | -- | | -- | | (126)| | | 145 | | | 19 |  
Balance at December 31, 2021| $| 18,874 | | $| 165,546 | | $| (3,889)| | $|
(41,464)| | $| 139,067 | | | $| 873 | | | $| 139,940 |  
Treasury stock transactions| 63 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 63 | | | -- | | | 63
|  
| | | | | | | | |  
Net income (loss)| -- | | 35,465 | | -- | | -- | | 35,465 | | | 143 | | |
35,608 |  
  
Cash dividends ($5.68 per share)

| -- | | (10,968)| | -- | | -- | | (10,968)| | | (118)| | | (11,086)|  
Stock dividends| -- | | (3)| | -- | | -- | | (3)| | | -- | | | (3)|  
Other comprehensive income| -- | | -- | | 1,091 | | -- | | 1,091 | | | -- | |
| 1,091 |  
Purchases of treasury shares| -- | | -- | | -- | | (11,255)| | (11,255)| | |
-- | | | (11,255)|  
Issuances of treasury shares| 1,315 | | -- | | -- | | 4,523 | | 5,838 | | | --
| | | 5,838 |  
Other changes, net | -- | | (16)| | -- | | -- | | (16)| | | 62 | | | 46 |  
Balance at December 31, 2022| $| 20,252 | | $| 190,024 | | $| (2,798)| | $|
(48,196)| | $| 159,282 | | | $| 960 | | | $| 160,242 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
| | | Common Stock Share Activity| | | |  
| |

Issued3

| | Treasury| | | Outstanding| |  
Balance at December 31, 2019| | 2,442,676,580 | | | (560,508,479)| | | |
1,882,168,101 | | |  
Purchases| | -- | | | (17,577,457)| | | | (17,577,457)| | |  
Issuances| | -- | | | 60,595,673 | | | | 60,595,673 | | |  
Balance at December 31, 2020| | 2,442,676,580 | | | (517,490,263)| | | |
1,925,186,317 | | |  
Purchases| | -- | | | (13,015,737)| | | | (13,015,737)| | |  
Issuances| | -- | | | 17,635,477 | | | | 17,635,477 | | |  
Balance at December 31, 2021| | 2,442,676,580 | | | (512,870,523)| | | |
1,929,806,057 | | |  
Purchases| | -- | | | (69,912,961)| | | | (69,912,961)| | |  
Issuances| | -- | | | 55,323,247 | | | | 55,323,247 | | |  
Balance at December 31, 2022| | 2,442,676,580 | | | (527,460,237)| | | |
1,915,216,343 | | |  
  
1  Beginning and ending balances for all periods include capital in excess of
par, common stock issued at par for $1,832, and $(240) associated with
Chevron's Benefit Plan Trust. Changes reflect capital in excess of par.  
  
2 Includes $120 redeemable noncontrolling interest.  
  
3 Beginning and ending total issued share balances include 14,168,000 shares
associated with Chevron's Benefit Plan Trust.  
  
See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
64

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Note 1

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

General The company's Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. These require the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in the financial
statements, as well as amounts included in the notes thereto, including
discussion and disclosure of contingent liabilities. Although the company uses
its best estimates and judgments, actual results could differ from these
estimates as circumstances change and additional information becomes known.
Prior years' data have been reclassified in certain cases to conform to the
2022 presentation basis.

Subsidiary and Affiliated Companies The Consolidated Financial Statements
include the accounts of controlled subsidiary companies more than 50 percent-
owned and any variable interest entities in which the company is the primary
beneficiary. Undivided interests in oil and gas joint ventures and certain
other assets are consolidated on a proportionate basis. Investments in and
advances to affiliates in which the company has a substantial ownership
interest of approximately 20 percent to 50 percent, or for which the company
exercises significant influence but not control over policy decisions, are
accounted for by the equity method.

Investments in affiliates are assessed for possible impairment when events
indicate that the fair value of the investment may be below the company's
carrying value. When such a condition is deemed to be other than temporary,
the carrying value of the investment is written down to its fair value, and
the amount of the write-down is included in net income. In making the
determination as to whether a decline is other than temporary, the company
considers such factors as the duration and extent of the decline, the
investee's financial performance, and the company's ability and intention to
retain its investment for a period that will be sufficient to allow for any
anticipated recovery in the investment's market value. The new cost basis of
investments in these equity investees is not changed for subsequent recoveries
in fair value.

Differences between the company's carrying value of an equity investment and
its underlying equity in the net assets of the affiliate are assigned to the
extent practicable to specific assets and liabilities based on the company's
analysis of the various factors giving rise to the difference. When
appropriate, the company's share of the affiliate's reported earnings is
adjusted quarterly to reflect the difference between these allocated values
and the affiliate's historical book values.

Noncontrolling Interests Ownership interests in the company's subsidiaries
held by parties other than the parent are presented separately from the
parent's equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The amount of consolidated
net income attributable to the parent and the noncontrolling interests are
both presented on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Income and
Consolidated Statement of Equity. Included within noncontrolling interest is
redeemable noncontrolling interest.

Fair Value Measurements The three levels of the fair value hierarchy of inputs
the company uses to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability are as
follows. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices
included within Level 1 that are directly or indirectly observable for the
asset or liability. Level 3 inputs are inputs that are not observable in the
market.

Derivatives The majority of the company's activity in derivative commodity
instruments is intended to manage the financial risk posed by physical
transactions. For some of this derivative activity, the company may elect to
apply fair value or cash flow hedge accounting with changes in fair value
recorded as components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). For
other similar derivative instruments, generally because of the short-term
nature of the contracts or their limited use, the company does not apply hedge
accounting, and changes in the fair value of those contracts are reflected in
current income. For the company's commodity trading activity, gains and losses
from derivative instruments are reported in current income. The company may
enter into interest rate swaps from time to time as part of its overall
strategy to manage the interest rate risk on its debt. Interest rate swaps
related to a portion of the company's fixed-rate debt, if any, may be
accounted for as fair value hedges. Interest rate swaps related to floating-
rate debt, if any, are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with
resulting gains and losses reflected in income. Where Chevron is a party to
master netting arrangements, fair value receivable and payable amounts
recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty are
generally offset on the balance sheet.

Inventories Crude oil, products and chemicals inventories are generally stated
at cost, using a last-in, first-out method. In the aggregate, these costs are
below market. "Materials, supplies and other" inventories are primarily stated
at cost or net realizable value.

65

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Properties, Plant and Equipment The successful efforts method is used for
crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. All costs for
development wells, related plant and equipment, proved mineral interests in
crude oil and natural gas properties, and related asset retirement obligation
(ARO) assets are capitalized. Costs of exploratory wells are capitalized
pending determination of whether the wells found proved reserves. Costs of
wells that are assigned proved reserves remain capitalized. Costs also are
capitalized for exploratory wells that have found crude oil and natural gas
reserves even if the reserves cannot be classified as proved when the drilling
is completed, provided the exploratory well has found a sufficient quantity of
reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and the company is
making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and
operating viability of the project. All other exploratory wells and costs are
expensed. Refer to Note 21 Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Wells for
additional discussion of accounting for suspended exploratory well costs.

Long-lived assets to be held and used, including proved crude oil and natural
gas properties, are assessed for possible impairment by comparing their
carrying values with their associated undiscounted, future net cash flows.
Events that can trigger assessments for possible impairments include write-
downs of proved reserves based on field performance, significant decreases in
the market value of an asset (including changes to the commodity price
forecast or carbon costs), significant change in the extent or manner of use
of or a physical change in an asset, and a more likely than not expectation
that a long-lived asset or asset group will be sold or otherwise disposed of
significantly sooner than the end of its previously estimated useful life.
Impaired assets are written down to their estimated fair values, generally
their discounted, future net cash flows. For proved crude oil and natural gas
properties, the company performs impairment reviews on a country, concession,
PSC, development area or field basis, as appropriate. In downstream,
impairment reviews are performed on the basis of a refinery, a plant, a
marketing/lubricants area or distribution area, as appropriate. Impairment
amounts are recorded as incremental "Depreciation, depletion and amortization"
expense.

Long-lived assets that are held for sale are evaluated for possible impairment
by comparing the carrying value of the asset with its fair value less the cost
to sell. If the net book value exceeds the fair value less cost to sell, the
asset is considered impaired and adjusted to the lower value. Refer to Note 9
Fair Value Measurements relating to fair value measurements. The fair value of
a liability for an ARO is recorded as an asset and a liability when there is a
legal obligation associated with the retirement of a long-lived asset and the
amount can be reasonably estimated. Refer also to Note 25 Asset Retirement
Obligations relating to AROs.

Depreciation and depletion of all capitalized costs of proved crude oil and
natural gas producing properties, except mineral interests, are expensed using
the unit-of-production method, generally by individual field, as the proved
developed reserves are produced. Depletion expenses for capitalized costs of
proved mineral interests are recognized using the unit-of-production method by
individual field as the related proved reserves are produced. Impairments of
capitalized costs of unproved mineral interests are expensed.

The capitalized costs of all other plant and equipment are depreciated or
amortized over their estimated useful lives. In general, the declining-balance
method is used to depreciate plant and equipment in the United States; the
straight-line method is generally used to depreciate international plant and
equipment and to amortize finance lease right-of-use assets.

Gains or losses are not recognized for normal retirements of properties, plant
and equipment subject to composite group amortization or depreciation. Gains
or losses from abnormal retirements are recorded as expenses, and from sales
as "Other income."

Expenditures for maintenance (including those for planned major maintenance
projects), repairs and minor renewals to maintain facilities in operating
condition are generally expensed as incurred. Major replacements and renewals
are capitalized.

Leases Leases are classified as operating or finance leases. Both operating
and finance leases recognize lease liabilities and associated right-of-use
assets. The company has elected the short-term lease exception and therefore
only recognizes right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases with a
term greater than one year. The company has elected the practical expedient to
not separate non-lease components from lease components for most asset classes
except for certain asset classes that have significant non-lease (i.e.,
service) components.

Where leases are used in joint ventures, the company recognizes 100 percent of
the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities when the company is the sole
signatory for the lease (in most cases, where the company is the operator of a
joint venture). Lease costs reflect only the costs associated with the
operator's working interest share. The lease term includes the committed lease
term identified in the contract, taking into account renewal and termination
options that management is

66

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

reasonably certain to exercise. The company uses its incremental borrowing
rate as a proxy for the discount rate based on the term of the lease unless
the implicit rate is available.

Goodwill Goodwill resulting from a business combination is not subject to
amortization. The company tests such goodwill at the reporting unit level for
impairment annually at December 31, or more frequently if an event occurs or
circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of
the reporting unit below its carrying amount.

Environmental Expenditures Environmental expenditures that relate to ongoing
operations or to conditions caused by past operations are expensed.
Expenditures that create future benefits or contribute to future revenue
generation are capitalized.

Liabilities related to future remediation costs are recorded when
environmental assessments or cleanups or both are probable and the costs can
be reasonably estimated. For crude oil, natural gas and mineral-producing
properties, a liability for an ARO is made in accordance with accounting
standards for asset retirement and environmental obligations. Refer to Note 25
Asset Retirement Obligations for a discussion of the company's AROs.

For U.S. federal Superfund sites and analogous sites under state laws, the
company records a liability for its designated share of the probable and
estimable costs, and probable amounts for other potentially responsible
parties when mandated by the regulatory agencies because the other parties are
not able to pay their respective shares. The gross amount of environmental
liabilities is based on the company's best estimate of future costs using
currently available technology and applying current regulations and the
company's own internal environmental policies. Future amounts are not
discounted. Recoveries or reimbursements are recorded as assets when receipt
is reasonably assured.

Currency Translation The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for
substantially all of the company's consolidated operations and those of its
equity affiliates. For those operations, all gains and losses from currency
remeasurement are included in current period income. The cumulative
translation effects for those few entities, both consolidated and affiliated,
using functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are included in
"Currency translation adjustment" on the Consolidated Statement of Equity.

Revenue Recognition The company accounts for each delivery order of crude oil,
natural gas, petroleum and chemical products as a separate performance
obligation. Revenue is recognized when the performance obligation is
satisfied, which typically occurs at the point in time when control of the
product transfers to the customer. Payment is generally due within 30 days of
delivery. The company accounts for delivery transportation as a fulfillment
cost, not a separate performance obligation, and recognizes these costs as an
operating expense in the period when revenue for the related commodity is
recognized.

Revenue is measured as the amount the company expects to receive in exchange
for transferring commodities to the customer. The company's commodity sales
are typically based on prevailing market-based prices and may include
discounts and allowances. Until market prices become known under terms of the
company's contracts, the transaction price included in revenue is based on the
company's estimate of the most likely outcome.

Discounts and allowances are estimated using a combination of historical and
recent data trends. When deliveries contain multiple products, an observable
standalone selling price is generally used to measure revenue for each
product. The company includes estimates in the transaction price only to the
extent that a significant reversal of revenue is not probable in subsequent
periods.

Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation The company issues stock
options and other share-based compensation to certain employees. For equity
awards, such as stock options, total compensation cost is based on the grant
date fair value, and for liability awards, such as stock appreciation rights,
total compensation cost is based on the settlement value. The company
recognizes stock-based compensation expense for all awards over the service
period required to earn the award, which is the shorter of the vesting period
or the time period in which an employee becomes eligible to retain the award
at retirement. The company's Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards include
stock options and stock appreciation rights, which have graded vesting
provisions by which one-third of each award vests on each of the first, second
and third anniversaries of the date of grant. In addition, performance shares
granted under the company's LTIP will vest at the end of the three-year
performance period. For awards granted under the company's LTIP beginning in
2017, stock options and stock appreciation rights have graded vesting by which
one third of each award vests annually on each January 31 on or after the
first anniversary of the grant date. Special restricted stock unit awards have
cliff vesting by which the total award will vest on January 31 on or after the
third anniversary of the grant date. Standard restricted stock unit awards
have cliff vesting by which the total award will vest on January 31 on or
after the fifth anniversary of the grant date, subject to adjustment upon
termination pursuant to the satisfaction of certain criteria. Commencing for
grants issued in January 2023

67

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

and after, standard restricted stock units vest ratably on an annual basis
over a three-year period. The company amortizes these awards on a straight-
line basis.

Note 2

Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Losses

The change in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Losses (AOCL) presented on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet and the impact of significant amounts reclassified
from AOCL on information presented in the Consolidated Statement of Income for
the year ended December 31, 2022, are reflected in the table below.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Currency Translation Adjustments| | Unrealized Holding Gains (Losses) on
Securities| | Derivatives| | Defined Benefit Plans| | Total  
Balance at December 31, 2019| $| (142)| | | $| (8)| | | $| -- | | | $|
(4,840)| | | $| (4,990)|  
  
Components of Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)1:

| | | | | | | | |  
  
Before Reclassifications

| 35 | | | (2)| | | -- | | | (1,487)| | | (1,454)|  
  
Reclassifications2

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 832 | | | 832 |  
  
Net Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

| 35 | | | (2)| | | -- | | | (655)| | | (622)|  
Balance at December 31, 2020| $| (107)| | | $| (10)| | | $| -- | | | $|
(5,495)| | | $| (5,612)|  
  
Components of Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)1:

| | | | | | | | |  
  
Before Reclassifications

| (55)| | | (1)| | | (6)| | | 949 | | | 887 |  
  
Reclassifications2, 3

| -- | | | -- | | | 6 | | | 830 | | | 836 |  
  
Net Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

| (55)| | | (1)| | | -- | | | 1,779 | | | 1,723 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Balance at December 31, 2021| $| (162)| | | $| (11)| | | $| -- | | | $|
(3,716)| | | $| (3,889)|  
  
Components of Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)1:

| | | | | | | | |  
  
Before Reclassifications

| (41)| | | (1)| | | 68 | | | 703 | | | 729 |  
  
Reclassifications2, 3

| -- | | | -- | | | (80)| | | 442 | | | 362 |  
Net Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)| (41)| | | (1)| | | (12)| | | 1,145 | |
| 1,091 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Balance at December 31, 2022| $| (203)| | | $| (12)| | | $| (12)| | | $|
(2,571)| | | $| (2,798)|  
  
1 All amounts are net of tax.

2 Refer to Note 23 Employee Benefit Plans, for reclassified components,
including amortization of actuarial gains or losses, amortization of prior
service costs and settlement losses, totaling $580 that are included in
employee benefit costs for the year ended December 31, 2022. Related income
taxes for the same period, totaling $138, are reflected in Income Tax Expense
on the Consolidated Statement of Income. All other reclassified amounts were
insignificant.

3 Refer to Note 10 Financial and Derivative Instruments for cash flow hedging.

68

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Note 3

Information Relating to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Distributions more (less) than income from equity affiliates includes the
following:| | | | | |  
Distributions from equity affiliates| $| 3,855 | | | | $| 3,659 | | | $| 1,543
|  
(Income) loss from equity affiliates| (8,585)| | | | (5,657)| | | 472 |  
Distributions more (less) than income from equity affiliates| $| (4,730)| | |
| $| (1,998)| | | $| 2,015 |  
  
Net decrease (increase) in operating working capital was composed of the
following:

| | | | | |  
Decrease (increase) in accounts and notes receivable| $| (2,317)| | | | $|
(7,548)| | | $| 2,423 |  
Decrease (increase) in inventories| (930)| | | | (530)| | | 284 |  
Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses and other current assets | (226)| | |
| 19 | | | (87)|  
Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and accrued liabilities | 2,750 | | |
| 5,475 | | | (3,576)|  
Increase (decrease) in income and other taxes payable| 2,848 | | | | 1,223 | |
| (696)|  
Net decrease (increase) in operating working capital| $| 2,125 | | | | $|
(1,361)| | | $| (1,652)|  
  
Net cash provided by operating activities includes the following cash
payments:

| | | | | |  
Interest on debt (net of capitalized interest)| $| 525 | | | | $| 699 | | | $|
720 |  
Income taxes| 9,148 | | | | 4,355 | | | 2,987 |  
Proceeds and deposits related to asset sales and returns of investment
consisted of the following gross amounts:| | | | | |  
Proceeds and deposits related to asset sales | $| 1,435 | | | | $| 1,352 | | |
$| 2,891 |  
Returns of investment from equity affiliates| 1,200 | | | | 439 | | | 77 |  
Proceeds and deposits related to asset sales and returns of investment| $|
2,635 | | | | $| 1,791 | | | $| 2,968 |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
  
Net sales (purchases) of marketable securities consisted of the following
gross amounts:

| | | | | |  
Marketable securities purchased| $| (7)| | | | $| (4)| | | $| -- |  
Marketable securities sold| 124 | | | | 3 | | | 35 |  
Net sales (purchases) of marketable securities| $| 117 | | | | $| (1)| | | $|
35 |  
  
Net repayment (borrowing) of loans by equity affiliates:

| | | | | |  
Borrowing of loans by equity affiliates| $| (108)| | | | $| -- | | | $|
(3,925)|  
Repayment of loans by equity affiliates| 84 | | | | 401 | | | 2,506 |  
Net repayment (borrowing) of loans by equity affiliates| $| (24)| | | | $| 401
| | | $| (1,419)|  
Net borrowings (repayments) of short-term obligations consisted of the
following gross and net amounts:| | | | | |  
Proceeds from issuances of short-term obligations| $| -- | | | | $| 4,448 | |
| $| 10,846 |  
Repayments of short-term obligations | -- | | | | (6,906)| | | (9,771)|  
Net borrowings (repayments) of short-term obligations with three months or
less maturity| 263 | | | | (3,114)| | | (424)|  
Net borrowings (repayments) of short-term obligations| $| 263 | | | | $|
(5,572)| | | $| 651 |  
  
Net sales (purchases) of treasury shares consists of the following gross and
net amounts:

| | | | | |  
Shares issued for share-based compensation plans| $| 5,838 | | | | $| 1,421 |
| | $| 226 |  
Shares purchased under share repurchase and deferred compensation plans |
(11,255)| | | | (1,383)| | | (1,757)|  
Net sales (purchases) of treasury shares| $| (5,417)| | | | $| 38 | | | $|
(1,531)|  
Net contributions from (distributions to) noncontrolling interests consisted
of the following gross and net amounts:| | | | | |  
Distributions to noncontrolling interests| $| (118)| | | | $| (53)| | | $|
(26)|  
Contributions from noncontrolling interests| 4 | | | | 17 | | | 2 |  
Net contributions from (distributions to) noncontrolling interests| $| (114)|
| | | $| (36)| | | $| (24)|  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
  
The "Other" line in the Operating Activities section includes changes in
postretirement benefits obligations and other long-term liabilities.

The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows excludes changes to the Consolidated
Balance Sheet that did not affect cash. "Depreciation, depletion and
amortization," "Deferred income tax provision," and "Dry hole expense,"
collectively include approximately $1.1 billion in non-cash reductions to
properties, plant and equipment in 2022 relating to impairments and other non-
cash charges. The company did not have any material impairments in 2021.

Refer also to Note 25 Asset Retirement Obligations for a discussion of
revisions to the company's AROs that also did not involve cash receipts or
payments for the three years ending December 31, 2022.

69

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

The components of "Capital expenditures" are presented in the following table:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
  
Additions to properties, plant and equipment *

| $| 10,349 | | | | $| 7,515 | | | $| 8,492 |  
Additions to investments| 1,147 | | | | 460 | | | 136 |  
Current-year dry hole expenditures| 309 | | | | 83 | | | 327 |  
  
Payments for other assets and liabilities, net

| 169 | | | | (2)| | | (33)|  
Capital expenditures| $| 11,974 | | | | $| 8,056 | | | $| 8,922 |  
  
* Excludes non-cash movements of $334 in 2022, $316 in 2021 and $816 in 2020.

The table below quantifies the beginning and ending balances of restricted
cash and restricted cash equivalents in the Consolidated Balance Sheet:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Year ended December 31  
| | | | 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
  
Cash and cash equivalents

| | | | $| 17,678 | | | | $| 5,640 | | | $| 5,596 |  
  
Restricted cash included in "Prepaid expenses and other current assets"

| | | | 630 | | | | 333 | | | 365 |  
  
Restricted cash included in "Deferred charges and other assets"

| | | | 813 | | | | 822 | | | 776 |  
  
Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash

| | | | $| 19,121 | | | | $| 6,795 | | | $| 6,737 |  
  
Note 4

New Accounting Standards

There are not currently any new or pending accounting standards that have a
significant impact on Chevron.

Note 5

Lease Commitments

The company enters into leasing arrangements as a lessee; any lessor
arrangements are not significant. Operating lease arrangements mainly involve
land, bareboat charters, terminals, drill ships, drilling rigs, time chartered
vessels, office buildings and warehouses, and exploration and production
equipment. Finance leases primarily include facilities, vessels and office
buildings.

Details of the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for operating and
finance leases, including the balance sheet presentation, are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31, 2022| | At December 31, 2021  
| Operating  
Leases| | Finance  
Leases| | Operating  
Leases| | Finance  
Leases  
| | | | | | |  
Deferred charges and other assets| $| 4,262 | | | $| -- | | | $| 3,668 | | |
$| -- |  
Properties, plant and equipment, net| -- | | | 392 | | | -- | | | 429 |  
Right-of-use assets*| $| 4,262 | | | $| 392 | | | $| 3,668 | | | $| 429 |  
Accrued Liabilities| $| 1,111 | | | $| -- | | | $| 995 | | | $| -- |  
Short-term Debt| -- | | | 45 | | | -- | | | 48 |  
Current lease liabilities| 1,111 | | | 45 | | | 995 | | | 48 |  
Deferred credits and other noncurrent obligations| 2,920 | | | -- | | | 2,508
| | | -- |  
Long-term Debt| -- | | | 403 | | | -- | | | 449 |  
Noncurrent lease liabilities| 2,920 | | | 403 | | | 2,508 | | | 449 |  
  
Total lease liabilities

| $| 4,031 | | | $| 448 | | | $| 3,503 | | | $| 497 |  
| | | | | | |  
Weighted-average remaining lease term (in years)| 7.0| | 11.9| | 7.8| | 13.2  
Weighted-average discount rate| 1.9 | %| | 4.1 | %| | 2.2 | %| | 4.2 | %  
  
* Includes non-cash additions of $1,807 and $3 in 2022, and $1,063 and $60 in 2021 for right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new and modified lease liabilities for operating and finance leases, respectively.

  

Total lease costs consist of both amounts recognized in the Consolidated
Statement of Income during the period and amounts capitalized as part of the
cost of another asset. Total lease costs incurred for operating and finance
leases were as follows:

70

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year-ended December 31  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Operating lease costs*| $| 2,359 | | | $| 2,199 | | | $| 2,551 |  
Finance lease costs | 57 | | | 66| | 45  
  
Total lease costs

| $| 2,416 | | | $| 2,265 | | | $| 2,596 |  
  
* Includes variable and short-term lease costs.

Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities was as
follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year-ended December 31  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Operating cash flows from operating leases| $| 1,892 | | | $| 1,670 | | | $|
1,744 |  
Investing cash flows from operating leases| 467 | | | 398 | | | 762 |  
Operating cash flows from finance leases| 18 | | | 21 | | | 14 |  
Financing cash flows from finance leases| 44 | | | 193 | | | 34 |  
  
At December 31, 2022, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows for
operating and finance leases were as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | At December 31, 2022  
| | Operating Leases| | Finance  
Leases  
| | | |  
Year| 2023| $| 1,171 | | | $| 61 |  
| 2024| 902 | | | 61 |  
| 2025| 633 | | | 57 |  
| 2026| 391 | | | 54 |  
| 2027| 252 | | | 47 |  
| Thereafter| 1,042 | | | 269 |  
| Total| $| 4,391 | | | $| 549 |  
Less: Amounts representing interest| 360 | | | 101 |  
  
Total lease liabilities

| $| 4,031 | | | $| 448 |  
  
Additionally, the company has $1,570 in future undiscounted cash flows for
operating leases not yet commenced. These leases are primarily for drill ships
and drilling rigs. The company also has $327 in future undiscounted cash flows
for a finance lease not yet commenced for production equipment. For those
leasing arrangements where the underlying asset is not yet constructed, the
lessor is primarily involved in the design and construction of the asset.

Note 6

Summarized Financial Data - Chevron U.S.A. Inc.

Chevron U.S.A. Inc. (CUSA) is a major subsidiary of Chevron Corporation. CUSA
and its subsidiaries manage and operate most of Chevron's U.S. businesses.
Assets include those related to the exploration and production of crude oil,
natural gas liquids and natural gas and those associated with the refining,
marketing, supply and distribution of products derived from petroleum,
excluding most of the regulated pipeline operations of Chevron. CUSA also
holds the company's investment in the Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC
joint venture, which is accounted for using the equity method. The summarized
financial information for CUSA and its consolidated subsidiaries is as
follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
  
Sales and other operating revenues

| $| 183,032 | | | | $| 120,380 | | | $| 67,950 |  
  
Total costs and other deductions

| 166,955 | | | | 114,641 | | | 72,575 |  
  
Net income (loss) attributable to CUSA

| 13,315 | | | | 6,904 | | | (2,676)|  
  
71

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021  
Current assets| $| 18,704 | | | | $| 20,216 |  
Other assets| 50,153 | | | | 47,355 |  
Current liabilities| 22,452 | | | | 17,824 |  
Other liabilities| 19,274 | | | | 18,438 |  
Total CUSA net equity| $| 27,131 | | | | $| 31,309 |  
Memo: Total debt| $| 10,800 | | | | $| 11,693 |  
  
Note 7

Summarized Financial Data - Tengizchevroil LLP

Chevron has a 50 percent equity ownership interest in Tengizchevroil LLP
(TCO). Refer to Note 15 Investments and Advances for a discussion of TCO
operations. Summarized financial information for 100 percent of TCO is
presented in the table below:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Sales and other operating revenues| $| 23,795 | | | | $| 15,927 | | | $| 9,194
|  
Costs and other deductions| 11,596 | | | | 8,186 | | | 6,076 |  
Net income attributable to TCO| 8,566 | | | | 5,418 | | | 2,196 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021  
Current assets| $| 6,522 | | | | $| 3,307 |  
Other assets| 54,506 | | | | 51,473 |  
Current liabilities| 3,567 | | | | 3,436 |  
Other liabilities| 12,312 | | | | 12,060 |  
Total TCO net equity| $| 45,149 | | | | $| 39,284 |  
  
Note 8

Summarized Financial Data - Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC

Chevron has a 50 percent equity ownership interest in Chevron Phillips
Chemical Company LLC (CPChem). Refer to Note 15 Investments and Advances for a
discussion of CPChem operations. Summarized financial information for 100
percent of CPChem is presented in the table below:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
  

| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Sales and other operating revenues| $| 14,180 | | | $| 14,104 | | | $| 8,407 |  
Costs and other deductions| 12,870 | | | 10,862 | | | 7,221 |  
Net income attributable to CPChem| 1,662 | | | 3,684 | | | 1,260 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31  
| 2022| | 2021  
Current assets| $| 3,472 | | | $| 3,381 |  
Other assets| 15,184 | | | 14,396 |  
Current liabilities| 2,146 | | | 1,854 |  
Other liabilities| 2,941 | | | 3,160 |  
Total CPChem net equity| $| 13,569 | | | $| 12,763 |  
  
Note 9

Fair Value Measurements

The tables below show the fair value hierarchy for assets and liabilities
measured at fair value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis at December 31,
2022 and 2021.

Marketable Securities The company calculates fair value for its marketable
securities based on quoted market prices for identical assets. The fair values
reflect the cash that would have been received if the instruments were sold at
December 31, 2022.

Derivatives The company records most of its derivative instruments - other
than any commodity derivative contracts that are accounted for as normal
purchase and normal sale - on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value,
with the offsetting

72

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

amount to the Consolidated Statement of Income. The company designates certain
derivative instruments as cash flow hedges that, if applicable, are reflected
in the table below. Derivatives classified as Level 1 include futures, swaps
and options contracts valued using quoted prices from active markets such as
the New York Mercantile Exchange. Derivatives classified as Level 2 include
swaps, options and forward contracts, the fair values of which are obtained
from third-party broker quotes, industry pricing services and exchanges. The
company obtains multiple sources of pricing information for the Level 2
instruments. Since this pricing information is generated from observable
market data, it has historically been very consistent. The company does not
materially adjust this information.

Properties, Plant and Equipment The company did not have any individually
material impairments of long-lived assets measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis to report in 2022 or 2021.

Investments and Advances The company did not have any material impairments of
investments and advances measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis to
report in 2022 or 2021.

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31, 2022| At December 31, 2021  
| Total| Level 1| Level 2| Level 3| Total| Level 1| Level 2| Level 3  
Marketable securities| $| 223 | | $| 223 | | $| -- | | $| -- | | $| 35 | | $|
35 | | $| -- | | $| -- |  
Derivatives - not designated| 184 | | 111 | | 73 | | -- | | 313 | | 285 | | 28
| | -- |  
Total assets at fair value| $| 407 | | $| 334 | | $| 73 | | $| -- | | $| 348 |
| $| 320 | | $| 28 | | $| -- |  
Derivatives - not designated| 43 | | 33 | | 10 | | -- | | 72 | | 24 | | 48 | |
-- |  
Derivatives - designated| 15 | | 15 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | --
|  
| | | | | | | |  
Total liabilities at fair value| $| 58 | | $| 48 | | $| 10 | | $| -- | | $| 72
| | $| 24 | | $| 48 | | $| -- |  
  
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31| At December 31  
| | | | | Before-Tax Loss| | | | | Before-Tax Loss  
| Total| Level 1| Level 2| Level 3| Year 2022| Total| Level 1| Level 2| Level
3| Year 2021  
Properties, plant and equipment, net (held and used)| $| 54 | | $| -- | | $|
-- | | $| 54 | | $| 518 | | $| 124 | | $| -- | | $| -- | | $| 124 | | $| 414 |  
Properties, plant and equipment, net (held for sale)| -- | | -- | | -- | | --
| | 432 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- |  
Investments and advances| 33 | | 2 | | -- | | 31 | | 9 | | 16 | | -- | | -- |
| 16 | | 32 |  
Total nonrecurring assets at fair value| $| 87 | | $| 2 | | $| -- | | $| 85 |
| $| 959 | | $| 140 | | $| -- | | $| -- | | $| 140 | | $| 446 |  
  
At year-end 2022, the company had assets measured at fair value Level 3 using
unobservable inputs of $85. The carrying value of these assets were written
down to fair value based on estimates derived from internal discounted cash
flow models. Cash flows were determined using estimates of future production,
an outlook of future price based on published prices and a discount rate
believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants.

Assets and Liabilities Not Required to Be Measured at Fair Value The company
holds cash equivalents in U.S. and non-U.S. portfolios. The instruments
classified as cash equivalents are primarily bank time deposits with
maturities of 90 days or less and money market funds. "Cash and cash
equivalents" had carrying/fair values of $17,678 and $5,640 at December 31,
2022, and December 31, 2021, respectively. The fair values of cash and cash
equivalents are classified as Level 1 and reflect the cash that would have
been received if the instruments were settled at December 31, 2022.

"Cash and cash equivalents" do not include investments with a carrying/fair
value of $1,443 and $1,155 at December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021,
respectively. At December 31, 2022, these investments are classified as Level
1 and include restricted funds related to certain upstream decommissioning
activities, tax payments and a financing program.

Long-term debt, excluding finance lease liabilities, of $16,258 and $22,164 at
December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021, respectively, had estimated fair
values of $14,959 and $23,670, respectively. Long-term debt primarily includes
corporate issued bonds. The fair value of corporate bonds is $14,571 and
classified as Level 1. The fair value of other long-term debt classified as
Level 2 is $388.

The carrying values of other short-term financial assets and liabilities on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet approximate their fair values. Fair value
remeasurements of other financial instruments at December 31, 2022 and 2021,
were not material.

  

73

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Note 10

Financial and Derivative Instruments

Derivative Commodity Instruments The company's derivative commodity
instruments principally include crude oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas
and refined product futures, swaps, options, and forward contracts. The
company applies cash flow hedge accounting to certain commodity transactions,
where appropriate, to manage the market price risk associated with forecasted
sales of crude oil. The company's derivatives are not material to the
company's financial position, results of operations or liquidity. The company
believes it has no material market or credit risks to its operations,
financial position or liquidity as a result of its commodity derivative
activities.

The company uses derivative commodity instruments traded on the New York
Mercantile Exchange and on electronic platforms of the Inter-Continental
Exchange and Chicago Mercantile Exchange. In addition, the company enters into
swap contracts and option contracts principally with major financial
institutions and other oil and gas companies in the "over-the-counter"
markets, which are governed by International Swaps and Derivatives Association
agreements and other master netting arrangements. Depending on the nature of
the derivative transactions, bilateral collateral arrangements may also be
required.

Derivative instruments measured at fair value at December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020, and their classification on the Consolidated Balance Sheet below and
Consolidated Statement of Income on the following page:

Consolidated Balance Sheet: Fair Value of Derivatives

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | | At December 31  
Type of Contract| Balance Sheet Classification| 2022| | | 2021  
Commodity|

Accounts and notes receivable, net

| $| 175 | | | | $| 251 |  
Commodity|

Long-term receivables, net

| 9 | | | | 62 |  
Total assets at fair value| $| 184 | | | | $| 313 |  
Commodity| Accounts payable| $| 46 | | | | $| 71 |  
Commodity|

Deferred credits and other noncurrent obligations

| 12 | | | | 1 |  
Total liabilities at fair value| $| 58 | | | | $| 72 |  
  
Consolidated Statement of Income: The Effect of Derivatives

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Gain/(Loss)  
Type of Derivative| Statement of| Year ended December 31  
Contract| Income Classification| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Commodity| Sales and other operating revenues| $| (651)| | | | $| (685)| | |
$| 69 |  
Commodity|

Purchased crude oil and products

| (226)| | | | (64)| | | (36)|  
Commodity| Other income| 10 | | | | (46)| | | 7 |  
| | $| (867)| | | | $| (795)| | | $| 40 |  
  
The amount reclassified from "Accumulated other comprehensive losses" (AOCL)
to "Sales and other operating revenues" from designated hedges was $80 in
2022, compared with an immaterial amount in the prior year. At December 31,
2022, before-tax deferred losses in AOCL related to outstanding crude oil
price hedging contracts were $15, all of which is expected to be reclassified
into earnings during the next 12 months as the hedged crude oil sales are
recognized in earnings.

The table below represents gross and net derivative assets and liabilities
subject to netting agreements on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December
31, 2022 and 2021.

Consolidated Balance Sheet: The Effect of Netting Derivative Assets and
Liabilities

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Gross Amounts Recognized| | Gross Amounts Offset| | Net Amounts Presented|
|  Gross Amounts Not Offset| | Net Amounts  
At December 31, 2022| | | | |  
Derivative Assets - not designated| | $| 2,591 | | | $| 2,407 | | | $| 184 | |
| $| 5 | | | $| 179 |  
Derivative Assets - designated| | $| 8 | | | $| 8 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | |
| $| -- |  
Derivative Liabilities - not designated| | $| 2,450 | | | $| 2,407 | | | $| 43
| | | $| -- | | | $| 43 |  
Derivative Liabilities - designated| | $| 23 | | | $| 8 | | | $| 15 | | | $|
-- | | | $| 15 |  
At December 31, 2021| | | | | | | | | |  
Derivative Assets - not designated| | $| 1,684 | | | $| 1,371 | | | $| 313 | |
| $| -- | | | $| 313 |  
Derivative Liabilities - not designated| | $| 1,443 | | | $| 1,371 | | | $| 72
| | | $| -- | | | $| 72 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
74

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Derivative assets and liabilities are classified on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet as "Accounts and notes receivable", "Long-term receivables", "Accounts
payable", and "Deferred credits and other noncurrent obligations". Amounts not
offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet represent positions that do not meet
all the conditions for "a right of offset."

Concentrations of Credit Risk The company's financial instruments that are
exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of its cash
equivalents, marketable securities, derivative financial instruments and trade
receivables. The company's short-term investments are placed with a wide array
of financial institutions with high credit ratings. Company investment
policies limit the company's exposure both to credit risk and to
concentrations of credit risk. Similar policies on diversification and
creditworthiness are applied to the company's counterparties in derivative
instruments. For a discussion of credit risk on trade receivables, see Note 28
Financial Instruments - Credit Losses.

Note 11

Assets Held for Sale

At December 31, 2022, the company classified $436 of net properties, plant and
equipment as "Assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. These
assets are associated with upstream operations that are anticipated to be sold
in the next 12 months. The revenues and earnings contributions of these assets
in 2022 were not material.

Note 12

Equity

Retained earnings at December 31, 2022 and 2021, included $33,570 and $28,876,
respectively, for the company's share of undistributed earnings of equity
affiliates.

At December 31, 2022, about 104 million shares of Chevron's common stock
remained available for issuance from the 104 million shares that were reserved
for issuance under the 2022 Chevron Long-Term Incentive Plan. In addition,
597,152 shares remain available for issuance from the 1,600,000 shares of the
company's common stock that were reserved for awards under the Chevron
Corporation Non-Employee Directors' Equity Compensation and Deferral Plan.

Note 13

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share (EPS) is based upon "Net Income (Loss) Attributable
to Chevron Corporation" ("earnings") and includes the effects of deferrals of
salary and other compensation awards that are invested in Chevron stock units
by certain officers and employees of the company. Diluted EPS includes the
effects of these items as well as the dilutive effects of outstanding stock
options awarded under the company's stock option programs (refer to Note 22
Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation). The table below sets forth
the computation of basic and diluted EPS:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Basic EPS Calculation| | | | | |  
  
Earnings available to common stockholders - Basic1

| $| 35,465 | | | | $| 15,625 | | | $| (5,543)|  
  
Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding2

| 1,931 | | | | 1,916 | | | 1,870 |  
  
Add: Deferred awards held as stock units

| -- | | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total weighted-average number of common shares outstanding| 1,931 | | | |
1,916 | | | 1,870 |  
Earnings per share of common stock - Basic| $| 18.36 | | | | $| 8.15 | | | $|
(2.96)|  
Diluted EPS Calculation| | | | | |  
  
Earnings available to common stockholders - Diluted1

| $| 35,465 | | | | $| 15,625 | | | $| (5,543)|  
  
Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding2

| 1,931 | | | | 1,916 | | | 1,870 |  
  
Add: Deferred awards held as stock units

| -- | | | | -- | | | -- |  
  
Add: Dilutive effect of employee stock-based awards

| 9 | | | | 4 | | | -- |  
Total weighted-average number of common shares outstanding| 1,940 | | | |
1,920 | | | 1,870 |  
Earnings per share of common stock - Diluted| $| 18.28 | | | | $| 8.14 | | |
$| (2.96)|  
  
1 There was no effect of dividend equivalents paid on stock units or dilutive
impact of employee stock-based awards on earnings.  
  
2 Millions of shares; 1 million shares of employee-based awards were not
included in the 2020 diluted EPS calculation as the result would be anti-
dilutive.  
  
  

75

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Note 14

Operating Segments and Geographic Data

Although each subsidiary of Chevron is responsible for its own affairs,
Chevron Corporation manages its investments in these subsidiaries and their
affiliates. The investments are grouped into two business segments, Upstream
and Downstream, representing the company's "reportable segments" and
"operating segments." Upstream operations consist primarily of exploring for,
developing, producing and transporting crude oil and natural gas;
liquefaction, transportation and regasification associated with liquefied
natural gas (LNG); transporting crude oil by major international oil export
pipelines; processing, transporting, storage and marketing of natural gas; and
a gas-to-liquids plant. Downstream operations consist primarily of refining of
crude oil into petroleum products; marketing of crude oil, refined products,
and lubricants; manufacturing and marketing of renewable fuels; transporting
of crude oil and refined products by pipeline, marine vessel, motor equipment
and rail car; and manufacturing and marketing of commodity petrochemicals,
plastics for industrial uses, and fuel and lubricant additives. All Other
activities of the company include worldwide cash management and debt financing
activities, corporate administrative functions, insurance operations, real
estate activities, and technology activities.

The company's segments are managed by "segment managers" who report to the
"chief operating decision maker" (CODM). The segments represent components of
the company that engage in activities (a) from which revenues are earned and
expenses are incurred; (b) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by
the CODM, which makes decisions about resources to be allocated to the
segments and assesses their performance; and (c) for which discrete financial
information is available.

The company's primary country of operation is the United States of America,
its country of domicile. Other components of the company's operations are
reported as "International" (outside the United States).

Segment Earnings The company evaluates the performance of its operating
segments on an after-tax basis, without considering the effects of debt
financing interest expense or investment interest income, both of which are
managed by the company on a worldwide basis. Corporate administrative costs
are not allocated to the operating segments. However, operating segments are
billed for the direct use of corporate services. Non-billable costs remain at
the corporate level in "All Other." Earnings by major operating area are
presented in the following table:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Upstream| | | | | |  
United States| $| 12,621 | | | | $| 7,319 | | | $| (1,608)|  
International| 17,663 | | | | 8,499 | | | (825)|  
Total Upstream| 30,284 | | | | 15,818 | | | (2,433)|  
Downstream| | | | | |  
United States| 5,394 | | | | 2,389 | | | (571)|  
International| 2,761 | | | | 525 | | | 618 |  
Total Downstream| 8,155 | | | | 2,914 | | | 47 |  
Total Segment Earnings| 38,439 | | | | 18,732 | | | (2,386)|  
All Other| | | | | |  
Interest expense| (476)| | | | (662)| | | (658)|  
Interest income| 261 | | | | 36 | | | 52 |  
Other| (2,759)| | | | (2,481)| | | (2,551)|  
  
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation

| $| 35,465 | | | | $| 15,625 | | | $| (5,543)|  
  
76

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Segment Assets Segment assets do not include intercompany investments or
receivables. Assets at year-end 2022 and 2021 are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021  
Upstream| | | |  
United States| $| 44,246 | | | | $| 41,870 |  
International| 134,489 | | | | 138,157 |  
Goodwill| 4,370 | | | | 4,385 |  
Total Upstream| 183,105 | | | | 184,412 |  
Downstream| | | |  
United States| 31,676 | | | | 26,376 |  
International| 21,193 | | | | 18,848 |  
Goodwill| 352 | | | | -- |  
Total Downstream| 53,221 | | | | 45,224 |  
Total Segment Assets| 236,326 | | | | 229,636 |  
All Other| | | |  
United States| 17,861 | | | | 5,746 |  
International| 3,522 | | | | 4,153 |  
Total All Other| 21,383 | | | | 9,899 |  
Total Assets - United States| 93,783 | | | | 73,992 |  
Total Assets - International| 159,204 | | | | 161,158 |  
Goodwill| 4,722 | | | | 4,385 |  
Total Assets| $| 257,709 | | | | $| 239,535 |  
  
Segment Sales and Other Operating Revenues Operating segment sales and other
operating revenues, including internal transfers, for the years 2022, 2021 and
2020, are presented in the table on the next page. Products are transferred
between operating segments at internal product values that approximate market
prices.

Revenues for the upstream segment are derived primarily from the production
and sale of crude oil and natural gas, as well as the sale of third-party
production of natural gas. Revenues for the downstream segment are derived
from the refining and marketing of petroleum products such as gasoline, jet
fuel, gas oils, lubricants, residual fuel oils and other products derived from
crude oil. This segment also generates revenues from the manufacture and sale
of fuel and lubricant additives and the transportation and trading of refined
products and crude oil. "All Other" activities include revenues from insurance
operations, real estate activities and technology companies.

77

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

Year ended December 311  
  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Upstream| | | | | |  
  
United States

| $| 50,822 | | | | $| 29,219 | | | $| 14,577 |  
  
International

| 56,156 | | | | 40,921 | | | 26,804 |  
  
Subtotal

| 106,978 | | | | 70,140 | | | 41,381 |  
  
Intersegment Elimination -- United States

| (29,870)| | | | (15,154)| | | (8,068)|  
  
Intersegment Elimination -- International

| (13,815)| | | | (10,994)| | | (7,002)|  
Total Upstream| 63,293 | | | | 43,992 | | | 26,311 |  
Downstream | | | | | |  
  
United States

| 91,824 | | | | 57,209 | | | 32,589 |  
  
International

| 87,741 | | | | 58,098 | | | 38,936 |  
  
Subtotal

| 179,565 | | | | 115,307 | | | 71,525 |  
  
Intersegment Elimination -- United States

| (5,529)| | | | (2,296)| | | (2,150)|  
  
Intersegment Elimination -- International

| (1,728)| | | | (1,521)| | | (1,292)|  
Total Downstream| 172,308 | | | | 111,490 | | | 68,083 |  
All Other| | | | | |  
  
United States

| 515 | | | | 506 | | | 744 |  
  
International

| 3 | | | | 2 | | | 15 |  
  
Subtotal

| 518 | | | | 508 | | | 759 |  
  
Intersegment Elimination -- United States

| (400)| | | | (382)| | | (667)|  
  
Intersegment Elimination -- International

| (2)| | | | (2)| | | (15)|  
Total All Other| 116 | | | | 124 | | | 77 |  
Sales and Other Operating Revenues| | | | | |  
  
United States

| 143,161 | | | | 86,934 | | | 47,910 |  
  
International

| 143,900 | | | | 99,021 | | | 65,755 |  
  
Subtotal

| 287,061 | | | | 185,955 | | | 113,665 |  
  
Intersegment Elimination -- United States

| (35,799)| | | | (17,832)| | | (10,885)|  
  
Intersegment Elimination -- International

| (15,545)| | | | (12,517)| | | (8,309)|  
  
Total Sales and Other Operating Revenues

| $| 235,717 | | | | $| 155,606 | | | $| 94,471 |  
  
1 Other than the United States, no other country accounted for 10 percent or
more of the company's Sales and Other Operating Revenues.

Segment Income Taxes Segment income tax expense for the years 2022, 2021 and
2020 is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Upstream| | | | | |  
United States| $| 3,678 | | | | $| 1,934 | | | $| (570)|  
International| 9,055 | | | | 4,192 | | | (415)|  
Total Upstream| 12,733 | | | | 6,126 | | | (985)|  
Downstream| | | | | |  
United States| 1,515 | | | | 547 | | | (192)|  
International| 280 | | | | 203 | | | 253 |  
Total Downstream| 1,795 | | | | 750 | | | 61 |  
All Other| (462)| | | | (926)| | | (968)|  
Total Income Tax Expense (Benefit)| $| 14,066 | | | | $| 5,950 | | | $|
(1,892)|  
  
Other Segment Information Additional information for the segmentation of major
equity affiliates is contained in Note 15 Investments and Advances.
Information related to properties, plant and equipment by segment is contained
in Note 18 Properties, Plant and Equipment.

  

  

78

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Note 15

Investments and Advances

Equity in earnings, together with investments in and advances to companies
accounted for using the equity method and other investments accounted for at
or below cost, is shown in the following table. For certain equity affiliates,
Chevron pays its share of some income taxes directly. For such affiliates, the
equity in earnings does not include these taxes, which are reported on the
Consolidated Statement of Income as "Income tax expense."

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Investments and Advances| | Equity in Earnings  
| At December 31| | Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Upstream| | | | | | | | |  
Tengizchevroil| $| 26,534 | | | $| 23,727 | | | $| 4,386 | | | $| 2,831 | | |
$| 1,238 |  
Petropiar| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (1,396)|  
Petroboscan| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (1,112)|  
Caspian Pipeline Consortium| 761 | | | 805 | | | 128 | | | 155 | | | 159 |  
Angola LNG Limited| 1,963 | | | 2,180 | | | 1,857 | | | 336 | | | (166)|  
| | | | | | | | |  
Other| 1,938 | | | 1,859 | | | 255 | | | 187 | | | 137 |  
Total Upstream| 31,196 | | | 28,571 | | | 6,626 | | | 3,509 | | | (1,140)|  
Downstream| | | | | | | | |  
Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC| 6,843 | | | 6,455 | | | 867 | | | 1,842
| | | 630 |  
GS Caltex Corporation| 4,288 | | | 3,616 | | | 874 | | | 85 | | | (185)|  
Other| 2,288 | | | 1,725 | | | 224 | | | 220 | | | 223 |  
Total Downstream| 13,419 | | | 11,796 | | | 1,965 | | | 2,147 | | | 668 |  
All Other| | | | | | | | |  
Other| (5)| | | (10)| | | (6)| | | 1 | | | -- |  
Total equity method| $| 44,610 | | | $| 40,357 | | | $| 8,585 | | | $| 5,657 |
| | $| (472)|  
Other non-equity method investments| 628 | | | 339 | | | | | | |  
Total investments and advances| $| 45,238 | | | $| 40,696 | | | | | | |  
Total United States| $| 9,855 | | | $| 8,540 | | | $| 975 | | | $| 1,889 | | |
$| 709 |  
Total International| $| 35,383 | | | $| 32,156 | | | $| 7,610 | | | $| 3,768 |
| | $| (1,181)|  
  
Descriptions of major equity affiliates and non-equity investments, including
significant differences between the company's carrying value of its
investments and its underlying equity in the net assets of the affiliates, are
as follows:

Tengizchevroil Chevron has a 50 percent equity ownership interest in
Tengizchevroil (TCO), which operates the Tengiz and Korolev crude oil fields
in Kazakhstan. At December 31, 2022, the company's carrying value of its
investment in TCO was about $90 higher than the amount of underlying equity in
TCO's net assets. This difference results from Chevron acquiring a portion of
its interest in TCO at a value greater than the underlying book value for that
portion of TCO's net assets. Included in the investment is a loan to TCO to
fund the development of the FGP/WPMP with a principal balance of $4,500.

Petropiar Chevron has a 30 percent interest in Petropiar, a joint stock
company which operates the heavy oil Huyapari Field and upgrading project in
Venezuela's Orinoco Belt. In 2020, the company fully impaired its investments
in the Petropiar affiliate and, effective July 1, 2020, began accounting for
this venture as a non-equity method investment.

Petroboscan Chevron has a 39.2 percent interest in Petroboscan, a joint stock
company which operates the Boscan Field in Venezuela. In 2020, the company
fully impaired its investments in the Petroboscan affiliate and, effective
July 1, 2020, began accounting for this venture as a non-equity method
investment. The company also has an outstanding long-term loan to Petroboscan
of $560, which remains fully provisioned for at year-end 2022.

Caspian Pipeline Consortium Chevron has a 15 percent interest in the Caspian
Pipeline Consortium, which provides the critical export route for crude oil
from both TCO and Karachaganak.

Angola LNG Limited Chevron has a 36.4 percent interest in Angola LNG Limited,
which processes and liquefies natural gas produced in Angola for delivery to
international markets.

Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC Chevron owns 50 percent of Chevron
Phillips Chemical Company LLC. Included in the investment balance is a loan
with a principal balance of $59 to fund a portion of the Golden Triangle
Polymers Project in Orange, Texas, in which Chevron Phillips Chemical Company
LLC owns 51 percent.

79

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

GS Caltex Corporation Chevron owns 50 percent of GS Caltex Corporation, a
joint venture with GS Energy in South Korea. The joint venture imports,
produces and markets petroleum products, petrochemicals and lubricants.

Other Information "Sales and other operating revenues" on the Consolidated
Statement of Income includes $16,286, $10,796 and $6,038 with affiliated
companies for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. "Purchased crude oil and
products" includes $10,171, $5,778 and $3,003 with affiliated companies for
2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

"Accounts and notes receivable" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet includes
$907 and $1,454 due from affiliated companies at December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively. "Accounts payable" includes $709 and $552 due to affiliated
companies at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

The following table provides summarized financial information on a 100 percent
basis for all equity affiliates as well as Chevron's total share, which
includes Chevron's net loans to affiliates of $4,278, $4,704 and $5,153 at
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Affiliates| | | Chevron Share  
Year ended December 31| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Total revenues| $| 100,184 | | | $| 71,241 | | | $| 49,093 | | | | $| 48,323 |
| | $| 34,359 | | | $| 21,641 |  
  
Income before income tax expense*

| 23,811 | | | 15,175 | | | 5,682 | | | | 10,876 | | | 6,984 | | | 2,550 |  
Net income attributable to affiliates| 19,077 | | | 12,598 | | | 4,704 | | | |
8,595 | | | 5,670 | | | 2,034 |  
At December 31| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Current assets| $| 26,632 | | | $| 21,871 | | | $| 17,087 | | | | $| 11,671 |
| | $| 9,267 | | | $| 7,328 |  
Noncurrent assets| 101,557 | | | 100,235 | | | 97,468 | | | | 46,428 | | |
44,360 | | | 43,247 |  
Current liabilities| 16,319 | | | 17,275 | | | 12,164 | | | | 7,708 | | |
7,492 | | | 5,052 |  
Noncurrent liabilities| 22,943 | | | 24,219 | | | 25,586 | | | | 5,980 | | |
5,982 | | | 5,884 |  
Total affiliates' net equity| $| 88,927 | | | $| 80,612 | | | $| 76,805 | | |
| $| 44,411 | | | $| 40,153 | | | $| 39,639 |  
  
* Chevron's net income attributable to affiliates is recorded in the company's before-tax consolidated earnings in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The total income tax expense recorded by the company's equity affiliates in 2022 was $4,734, with Chevron's share being $2,281.

Note 16

Litigation

Ecuador

In 2003, Chevron was sued in Ecuador for environmental harm allegedly caused
by an oil consortium formerly operated by a Texaco subsidiary. The subsidiary
previously had been released from environmental claims by Ecuador after it
completed a three-year remediation program, which Ecuador certified.
Nonetheless, in February 2011, the Ecuadorian trial court entered judgment
against Chevron for approximately $9.5 billion, plus punitive damages. An
appellate panel affirmed, and Ecuador's National Court of Justice ratified the
judgment but nullified the punitive damages. Ecuador's highest Constitutional
Court rejected Chevron's final appeal in July 2018.

In 2011, Chevron sued the Ecuadorian plaintiffs and several of their lawyers
and cohorts in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
(SDNY) for violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
(RICO) Act and state law. The SDNY ruled that the Ecuadorian judgment had been
procured through fraud, bribery, and corruption, and prohibited the defendants
from seeking to enforce the judgment in the United States or profiting from
their illegal acts. The Second Circuit affirmed, and the U.S. Supreme Court
denied certiorari in 2017. The Ecuadorian plaintiffs sought to have the
Ecuadorian judgment recognized and enforced in Canada, Brazil, and Argentina,
but all of those actions were dismissed in Chevron's favor.

In 2009, Chevron filed an arbitration claim against Ecuador before an arbitral
tribunal administered by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague,
under the United States-Ecuador Bilateral Investment Treaty. In 2018, the
Tribunal ruled that the Ecuadorian judgment was procured through fraud,
bribery, and corruption, and was based on environmental claims that Ecuador
had already settled and released. According to the Tribunal, the Ecuadorian
judgment "violates international public policy" and "should not be recognized
or enforced by the courts of other States." The Tribunal ordered Ecuador to
remove the judgment's status of enforceability and to compensate Chevron for
its injuries. The arbitration's final phases, to determine the amount of
compensation owed to Chevron and to allocate the arbitration's costs, remain
pending. In 2020, the District Court of The Hague denied Ecuador's request to
set aside the Tribunal's award. Based on Ecuador's admissions during the
litigation, the Court stated that it now is "common ground" between Ecuador
and Chevron that the Ecuadorian judgment is fraudulent. In June 2022, The
Hague Court of Appeals dismissed Ecuador's appeal. In September

80

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

2022, Ecuador appealed to the Dutch Supreme Court. In a separate proceeding
before the Office of the United States Trade Representative, Ecuador also
admitted in July 2020 that the Ecuadorian judgment is fraudulent.

Management continues to believe that the Ecuadorian judgment is illegitimate
and unenforceable and will vigorously defend against any further attempts to
have it recognized or enforced.

Climate Change

Governmental and other entities in various jurisdictions across the United
States have filed legal proceedings against fossil fuel producing companies,
including Chevron entities, purporting to seek legal and equitable relief to
address alleged impacts of climate change. Chevron entities are or were among
the codefendants in 23 separate lawsuits brought by 17 U.S. cities and
counties, three U.S. states, the District of Columbia, a group of
municipalities in Puerto Rico and a trade group. One of the city lawsuits was
dismissed on the merits, and one of the county lawsuits was voluntarily
dismissed by the plaintiff. The lawsuits assert various causes of action,
including public nuisance, private nuisance, failure to warn, fraud,
conspiracy to commit fraud, design defect, product defect, trespass,
negligence, impairment of public trust, violations of consumer protection
statutes, violations of a federal antitrust statute, and violations of the
RICO Act, based upon, among other things, the company's production of oil and
gas products and alleged misrepresentations or omissions relating to climate
change risks associated with those products. The unprecedented legal theories
set forth in these proceedings entail the possibility of damages liability
(both compensatory and punitive), injunctive and other forms of equitable
relief, including without limitation abatement and disgorgement of profits,
civil penalties and liability for fees and costs of suits, that, while we
believe remote, could have a material adverse effect on the company's results
of operations and financial condition. Further such proceedings are likely to
be filed by other parties. Management believes that these proceedings are
legally and factually meritless and detract from constructive efforts to
address the important policy issues presented by climate change, and will
vigorously defend against such proceedings.

Louisiana

Seven coastal parishes and the State of Louisiana have filed lawsuits in
Louisiana against numerous oil and gas companies seeking damages for coastal
erosion in or near oil fields located within Louisiana's coastal zone under
Louisiana's State and Local Coastal Resources Management Act (SLCRMA). Chevron
entities are defendants in 39 of these cases. The lawsuits allege that the
defendants' historical operations were conducted without necessary permits or
failed to comply with permits obtained and seek damages and other relief,
including the costs of restoring coastal wetlands allegedly impacted by oil
field operations. Plaintiffs' SLCRMA theories are unprecedented; thus, there
remains significant uncertainty about the scope of the claims and alleged
damages and any potential effects on the company's results of operations and
financial condition. Management believes that the claims lack legal and
factual merit and will continue to vigorously defend against such proceedings.

Note 17

Taxes

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Income Taxes

| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Income tax expense (benefit)| | | | | |  
U.S. federal| | | | | |  
Current| $| 1,723 | | | | $| 174 | | | $| (182)|  
Deferred| 2,240 | | | | 1,004 | | | (1,315)|  
State and local| | | | | |  
Current| 482 | | | | 222 | | | 65 |  
Deferred| 39 | | | | 202 | | | (152)|  
Total United States| 4,484 | | | | 1,602 | | | (1,584)|  
International| | | | | |  
Current| 9,738 | | | | 4,854 | | | 1,833 |  
Deferred| (156)| | | | (506)| | | (2,141)|  
Total International| 9,582 | | | | 4,348 | | | (308)|  
Total income tax expense (benefit)| $| 14,066 | | | | $| 5,950 | | | $|
(1,892)|  
  
The reconciliation between the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate and the
company's effective income tax rate is detailed in the following table:

81

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Income (loss) before income taxes| | | | | |  
United States| $| 21,005 | | | | $| 9,674 | | | $| (5,700)|  
International| 28,669 | | | | 11,965 | | | (1,753)|  
Total income (loss) before income taxes| 49,674 | | | | 21,639 | | | (7,453)|  
Theoretical tax (at U.S. statutory rate of 21%)| 10,432 | | | | 4,544 | | |
(1,565)|  
| | | | | |  
Equity affiliate accounting effect| (1,678)| | | | (890)| | | 211 |  
Effect of income taxes from international operations| 5,041 | | | | 2,692 | |
| (39)|  
  
State and local taxes on income, net of U.S. federal income tax benefit

| 508 | | | | 216 | | | (65)|  
  
Prior year tax adjustments, claims and settlements 1

| (90)| | | | 362 | | | (236)|  
Tax credits| (6)| | | | (173)| | | (33)|  
  
Other U.S. 1, 2

| (141)| | | | (801)| | | (165)|  
Total income tax expense (benefit)| $| 14,066 | | | | $| 5,950 | | | $|
(1,892)|  
| | | | | |  
  
Effective income tax rate 3

| 28.3 | %| | | 27.5 | %| | 25.4 | %  
  
1 Includes one-time tax costs (benefits) associated with changes in uncertain
tax positions.

2 Includes one-time tax costs (benefits) associated with changes in valuation
allowances (2022 - $(36); 2021 - $(624); 2020 - $0).

3 The company's effective tax rate is reflective of equity income reported on
an after-tax basis as part of the "Total Income (Loss) Before Income Tax
Expense," in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Chevron's share of its equity affiliates' total income tax expense in 2022 was
$2,281.

The 2022 increase in income tax expense of $8,116 is a result of the year-
over-year increase in total income before income tax expense, which is
primarily due to higher upstream realizations and downstream margins. The
company's effective tax rate changed from 27.5 percent in 2021 to 28.3 percent
in 2022. The change in effective tax rate is mainly due to mix effects
resulting from the absolute level of earnings or losses and whether they arose
in higher or lower tax rate jurisdictions.

The company records its deferred taxes on a tax-jurisdiction basis. The
reported deferred tax balances are composed of the following:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | At December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021  
Deferred tax liabilities| | | |  
Properties, plant and equipment| $| 18,295 | | | | $| 17,169 |  
Investments and other| 4,492 | | | | 4,105 |  
Total deferred tax liabilities| 22,787 | | | | 21,274 |  
Deferred tax assets| | | |  
Foreign tax credits| (12,599)| | | | (11,718)|  
Asset retirement obligations/environmental reserves| (4,518)| | | | (4,553)|  
Employee benefits| (2,087)| | | | (3,037)|  
Deferred credits| (446)| | | | (996)|  
Tax loss carryforwards| (3,887)| | | | (4,175)|  
Other accrued liabilities| (746)| | | | (239)|  
Inventory| (219)| | | | (289)|  
Operating leases | (1,134)| | | | (1,255)|  
Miscellaneous| (4,057)| | | | (3,657)|  
Total deferred tax assets| (29,693)| | | | (29,919)|  
Deferred tax assets valuation allowance| 19,532 | | | | 17,651 |  
Total deferred taxes, net| $| 12,626 | | | | $| 9,006 |  
  
Deferred tax liabilities increased by $1,513 from year-end 2021, primarily
driven by an increase to properties, plant and equipment. Deferred tax assets
decreased by $226 from year-end 2021. This decrease was primarily related to
decreases in employee benefits and tax loss carryforwards for various
locations, partially offset by the increase in foreign tax credits.

The overall valuation allowance relates to deferred tax assets for U.S.
foreign tax credit carryforwards, tax loss carryforwards and temporary
differences. The valuation allowance reduces the deferred tax assets to
amounts that are, in management's assessment, more likely than not to be
realized. At the end of 2022, the company had gross tax loss carryforwards of
approximately $9,850 and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $440,
primarily related to various international tax jurisdictions. Whereas some of
these tax loss carryforwards do not have an expiration date, others expire at
various times from 2023 through 2041. U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards of
$12,599 will expire between 2023 and 2033.

82

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

At December 31, 2022 and 2021, deferred taxes were classified on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021  
Deferred charges and other assets| $| (4,505)| | | | $| (5,659)|  
Noncurrent deferred income taxes| 17,131 | | | | 14,665 |  
Total deferred income taxes, net| $| 12,626 | | | | $| 9,006 |  
  
Income taxes, including U.S. state and foreign withholding taxes, are not
accrued for unremitted earnings of international operations that have been or
are intended to be reinvested indefinitely. The indefinite reinvestment
assertion continues to apply for the purpose of determining deferred tax
liabilities for U.S. state and foreign withholding tax purposes.

Undistributed earnings of international consolidated subsidiaries and
affiliates for which no deferred income tax provision has been made for
possible future remittances totaled approximately $51,300 at December 31,
2022. This amount represents earnings reinvested as part of the company's
ongoing international business. It is not practicable to estimate the amount
of state and foreign withholding taxes that might be payable on the possible
remittance of earnings that are intended to be reinvested indefinitely. The
company does not anticipate incurring significant additional taxes on
remittances of earnings that are not indefinitely reinvested.

Uncertain Income Tax Positions The company recognizes a tax benefit in the
financial statements for an uncertain tax position only if management's
assessment is that the position is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood
greater than 50 percent) to be allowed by the tax jurisdiction based solely on
the technical merits of the position. The term "tax position" in the
accounting standards for income taxes refers to a position in a previously
filed tax return or a position expected to be taken in a future tax return
that is reflected in measuring current or deferred income tax assets and
liabilities for interim or annual periods.

The following table indicates the changes to the company's unrecognized tax
benefits for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020. The term
"unrecognized tax benefits" in the accounting standards for income taxes
refers to the differences between a tax position taken or expected to be taken
in a tax return and the benefit measured and recognized in the financial
statements. Interest and penalties are not included.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Balance at January 1| $| 5,288 | | | | $| 5,018 | | | $| 4,987 |  
Foreign currency effects| (2)| | | | (1)| | | 2 |  
Additions based on tax positions taken in current year| 30 | | | | 194 | | |
253 |  
  
Additions for tax positions taken in prior years

| 234 | | | | 218 | | | 437 |  
  
Reductions for tax positions taken in prior years

| (117)| | | | (36)| | | (216)|  
  
Settlements with taxing authorities in current year

| (110)| | | | (18)| | | (429)|  
  
Reductions as a result of a lapse of the applicable statute of limitations

| -- | | | | (87)| | | (16)|  
Balance at December 31| $| 5,323 | | | | $| 5,288 | | | $| 5,018 |  
  
Approximately 80 percent of the $5,323 of unrecognized tax benefits at
December 31, 2022, would have an impact on the effective tax rate if
subsequently recognized. Certain of these unrecognized tax benefits relate to
tax carryforwards that may require a full valuation allowance at the time of
any such recognition.

Tax positions for Chevron and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to
income tax audits by many tax jurisdictions throughout the world. For the
company's major tax jurisdictions, examinations of tax returns for certain
prior tax years had not been completed as of December 31, 2022. For these
jurisdictions, the latest years for which income tax examinations had been
finalized were as follows: United States - 2016, Nigeria - 2007, Australia -
2009, Kazakhstan - 2012 and Saudi Arabia - 2016\.

The company engages in ongoing discussions with tax authorities regarding the
resolution of tax matters in the various jurisdictions. Both the outcome of
these tax matters and the timing of resolution and/or closure of the tax
audits are highly uncertain. Of the amount of unrecognized tax benefits the
company has identified as of December 31, 2022, it is reasonably possible that
developments on tax matters in certain tax jurisdictions may result in
decreases of approximately 20 percent within the next 12 months. Given the
number of years that still remain subject to examination and the number of
matters being examined in the various tax jurisdictions, the company is unable
to estimate the range of possible adjustments to the balance of unrecognized
tax benefits beyond the next 12 months.

On the Consolidated Statement of Income, the company reports interest and
penalties related to liabilities for uncertain tax positions as "Income Tax
Expense (Benefit)." As of December 31, 2022, accrued expense of $112 for
anticipated interest

83

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

and penalties was included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, compared with
accrued benefit of $(76) as of year-end 2021. Income tax expense (benefit)
associated with interest and penalties was $152, $19 and $(124) in 2022, 2021
and 2020, respectively.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Taxes Other Than on Income| | | | | |  
| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
United States| | | | | |  
Import duties and other levies| $| 10 | | | | $| 7 | | | $| 7 |  
  
Property and other miscellaneous taxes

| 609 | | | | 552 | | | 588 |  
Payroll taxes| 248 | | | | 302 | | | 235 |  
Taxes on production| 989 | | | | 628 | | | 317 |  
Total United States| 1,856 | | | | 1,489 | | | 1,147 |  
International| | | | | |  
Import duties and other levies| 63 | | | | 49 | | | 39 |  
  
Property and other miscellaneous taxes

| 1,789 | | | | 2,174 | | | 1,461 |  
Payroll taxes| 122 | | | | 113 | | | 117 |  
Taxes on production| 202 | | | | 138 | | | 75 |  
Total International| 2,176 | | | | 2,474 | | | 1,692 |  
Total taxes other than on income| $| 4,032 | | | | $| 3,963 | | | $| 2,839 |  
  
  
  
  
Note 18

Properties, Plant and Equipment1

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31| | Year ended December 31  
| Gross Investment at Cost| | Net Investment| |

Additions at Cost2

| |

Depreciation Expense3  
  
| 2022| 2021| 2020| | 2022| 2021| 2020| | 2022| 2021| 2020| | 2022| 2021| 2020  
Upstream| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
United States| $| 96,590 | | $| 93,393 | | $| 96,555 | | | $| 37,031 | | $|
36,027 | | $| 38,175 | | | $| 6,461 | | $| 4,520 | | $| 13,067 | | | $| 5,012
| | $| 5,675 | | $| 6,841 |  
International| 188,556 | | 202,757 | | 209,846 | | | 88,549 | | 94,770 | |
102,010 | | | 2,599 | | 2,349 | | 11,069 | | | 9,830 | | 10,824 | | 11,121 |  
Total Upstream| 285,146 | | 296,150 | | 306,401 | | | 125,580 | | 130,797 | |
140,185 | | | 9,060 | | 6,869 | | 24,136 | | | 14,842 | | 16,499 | | 17,962 |  
Downstream| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
United States| 29,802 | | 26,888 | | 26,499 | | | 12,827 | | 10,766 | | 11,101
| | | 2,742 | | 543 | | 638 | | | 913 | | 833 | | 851 |  
International| 8,281 | | 8,134 | | 7,993 | | | 3,226 | | 3,300 | | 3,395 | | |
246 | | 234 | | 573 | | | 311 | | 296 | | 283 |  
Total Downstream| 38,083 | | 35,022 | | 34,492 | | | 16,053 | | 14,066 | |
14,496 | | | 2,988 | | 777 | | 1,211 | | | 1,224 | | 1,129 | | 1,134 |  
All Other| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
United States| 4,402 | | 4,729 | | 4,195 | | | 1,931 | | 2,078 | | 1,916 | | |
230 | | 143 | | 194 | | | 247 | | 290 | | 403 |  
International| 154 | | 144 | | 144 | | | 27 | | 20 | | 21 | | | 12 | | 7 | | 5
| | | 6 | | 7 | | 9 |  
Total All Other| 4,556 | | 4,873 | | 4,339 | | | 1,958 | | 2,098 | | 1,937 | |
| 242 | | 150 | | 199 | | | 253 | | 297 | | 412 |  
Total United States| 130,794 | | 125,010 | | 127,249 | | | 51,789 | | 48,871 |
| 51,192 | | | 9,433 | | 5,206 | | 13,899 | | | 6,172 | | 6,798 | | 8,095 |  
Total International| 196,991 | | 211,035 | | 217,983 | | | 91,802 | | 98,090 |
| 105,426 | | | 2,857 | | 2,590 | | 11,647 | | | 10,147 | | 11,127 | | 11,413
|  
Total| $| 327,785 | | $| 336,045 | | $| 345,232 | | | $| 143,591 | | $|
146,961 | | $| 156,618 | | | $| 12,290 | | $| 7,796 | | $| 25,546 | | | $|
16,319 | | $| 17,925 | | $| 19,508 |  
  
1Other than the United States and Australia, no other country accounted for 10
percent or more of the company's net properties, plant and equipment (PP&E) in
2022. Australia had PP&E of $44,012, $46,687 and $48,374 in 2022, 2021 and
2020, respectively. Gross Investment at Cost, Net Investment and Additions at
Cost for 2020 each include $16,703 associated with the Noble acquisition.

2Net of dry hole expense related to prior years' expenditures of $177, $35 and
$709 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

3Depreciation expense includes accretion expense of $560, $616 and $560 in
2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and impairments and write-offs of $950,
$414 and $2,792 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

84

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Note 19

Short-Term Debt

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021  
Commercial paper| $| -- | | | | $| -- |  
  
Notes payable to banks and others with originating terms of one year or less

| 328 | | | | 62 |  
  
Current maturities of long-term debt1

| 2,699 | | | | 4,946 |  
  
Current maturities of long-term finance leases

| 45 | | | | 48 |  
Redeemable long-term obligations| 2,942 | | | | 2,959 |  
| | | |  
  
Subtotal

| 6,014 | | | | 8,015 |  
Reclassified to long-term debt| (4,050)| | | | (7,759)|  
Total short-term debt| $| 1,964 | | | | $| 256 |  
  
1 Inclusive of unamortized premiums of $5 at December 31, 2022 and $0 at
December 31, 2021.

| | | |  
| | | |  
  
Redeemable long-term obligations consist primarily of tax-exempt variable-rate
put bonds that are included as current liabilities because they become
redeemable at the option of the bondholders during the year following the
balance sheet date.

The company may periodically enter into interest rate swaps on a portion of
its short-term debt. At December 31, 2022, the company had no interest rate
swaps on short-term debt.

At December 31, 2022, the company had $8,495 in 364-day committed credit
facilities with various major banks that enable the refinancing of short-term
obligations on a long-term basis. The credit facilities allow the company to
convert any amounts outstanding into a term loan for a period of up to one
year. This supports commercial paper borrowing and can also be used for
general corporate purposes. The company's practice has been to continually
replace expiring commitments with new commitments on substantially the same
terms, maintaining levels management believes appropriate. Any borrowings
under the facility would be unsecured indebtedness at interest rates based on
the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), or an average of base lending
rates published by specified banks and on terms reflecting the company's
strong credit rating. No borrowings were outstanding under this facility at
December 31, 2022.

The company classified $4,050 and $7,759 of short-term debt as long-term at
December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Settlement of these obligations is
not expected to require the use of working capital within one year, and the
company has both the intent and the ability, as evidenced by committed credit
facilities, to refinance them on a long-term basis.

85

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Note 20

Long-Term Debt

Total long-term debt including finance lease liabilities at December 31, 2022,
was $21,375. The company's long-term debt outstanding at year-end 2022 and
2021 was as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | | At December 31  
| | | | | 2022| | | 2021  
|

Weighted Average Interest Rate (%)1

| |

Range of Interest Rates (%)2

| | Principal| | | Principal  
| | | | | | | |  
Notes due 2023| 1.282| |

0.426 \- 7.250

| | $| 1,800 | | | | $| 4,800 |  
Floating rate notes due 2023| 3.384| |

3.121 \- 3.821

| | 800 | | | | 800 |  
Notes due 2024| 3.291| |

2.895 \- 3.900

| | 1,650 | | | | 1,650 |  
| | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | |  
Notes due 2025| 1.724| |

0.687 \- 3.326

| | 4,000 | | | | 4,000 |  
Notes due 2026| | | 2.954| | 2,250 | | | | 2,250 |  
Notes due 2027| 2.379| |

1.018 \- 8.000

| | 2,000 | | | | 2,000 |  
Notes due 2028| | | 3.850| | 600 | | | | 600 |  
Notes due 2029| | | 3.250| | 500 | | | | 500 |  
Notes due 2030| | | 2.236| | 1,500 | | | | 1,500 |  
Debentures due 2031| | | 8.625| | 102 | | | | 102 |  
Debentures due 2032| 8.416| |

8.000 \- 8.625

| | 183 | | | | 183 |  
Notes due 2040| | | 2.978| | 293 | | | | 293 |  
Notes due 2041| | | 6.000| | 397 | | | | 397 |  
Notes due 2043| | | 5.250| | 330 | | | | 330 |  
Notes due 2044| | | 5.050| | 222 | | | | 222 |  
Notes due 2047| | | 4.950| | 187 | | | | 187 |  
Notes due 2049| | | 4.200| | 237 | | | | 237 |  
Notes due 2050| 2.763| |

2.343 \- 3.078

| | 1,750 | | | | 1,750 |  
Debentures due 2097| | | 7.250| | 60 | | | | 60 |  
Bank loans due 2023| 5.206| |

4.928 \- 5.342

| | 91 | | | | 100 |  
  
3.400% loan

| | | | | -- | | | | 211 |  
Medium-term notes, maturing from 2023 to 2038| 6.306| |

4.283 \- 7.900

| | 23 | | | | 23 |  
Notes due 2022| | | | | -- | | | | 4,946 |  
Total including debt due within one year| | | | | 18,975 | | | | 27,141 |  
Debt due within one year| | | | | (2,694)| | | | (4,946)|  
| | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | |  
Fair market value adjustment for debt acquired in the Noble acquisition| | 664
| | | | 741 |  
Reclassified from short-term debt| | | | | 4,050 | | | | 7,759 |  
Unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs| | | | | (23)| | | | (31)|  
  
Finance lease liabilities3

| | | | | 403 | | | | 449 |  
Total long-term debt| | | | | $| 21,375 | | | | $| 31,113 |  
  
1 Weighted-average interest rate at December 31, 2022.

| | | | | | | |  
  
2 Range of interest rates at December 31, 2022.

| | | | | | | |  
  
3 For details on finance lease liabilities, see Note 5 Lease Commitments.

| | | | | | |  
  
Chevron has an automatic shelf registration statement that expires in August
2023. This registration statement is for an unspecified amount of
nonconvertible debt securities issued or guaranteed by Chevron Corporation or
CUSA.

Long-term debt excluding finance lease liabilities with a principal balance of
$18,975 matures as follows: 2023 - $2,694; 2024 - $1,650; 2025 - $4,000; 2026
- $2,250; 2027 - $2,000; and after 2027 - $6,381.

In addition to the $4.9 billion in long-term debt that matured in 2022, the
company also early-redeemed $3.0 billion in notes at face value that were
scheduled to mature in the second quarter of 2023.

See Note 9 Fair Value Measurements for information concerning the fair value
of the company's long-term debt.

Note 21

Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Wells

The company continues to capitalize exploratory well costs after the
completion of drilling when the well has found a sufficient quantity of
reserves to justify completion as a producing well, and the business unit is
making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and
operating viability of the project. If either condition is not met or if the
company obtains information that raises substantial doubt about the economic
or operational viability of the project, the exploratory well would be assumed
to be impaired, and its costs, net of any salvage value, would be charged to
expense.

86

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

The following table indicates the changes to the company's suspended
exploratory well costs for the three years ended December 31, 2022:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| 2021| 2020  
Beginning balance at January 1| $| 2,109 | | $| 2,512 | | $| 3,041 |  
  
Additions to capitalized exploratory well costs pending the determination of
proved reserves

| 72 | | 56 | | 28 |  
  
Reclassifications to wells, facilities and equipment based on the
determination of proved reserves

| (481)| | (425)| | (102)|  
  
Capitalized exploratory well costs charged to expense

| (73)| | (34)| | (667)|  
  
Other*

| -- | | -- | | 212 |  
Ending balance at December 31| $| 1,627 | | $| 2,109 | | $| 2,512 |  
  
* 2020 represents fair value of well costs acquired in the Noble acquisition.

The following table provides an aging of capitalized well costs and the number
of projects for which exploratory well costs have been capitalized for a
period greater than one year since the completion of drilling.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| At December 31  
| 2022| 2021| 2020  
  
Exploratory well costs capitalized for a period of one year or less

| $| 73 | | $| 65 | | $| 26 |  
  
Exploratory well costs capitalized for a period greater than one year

| 1,554 | | 2,044 | | 2,486 |  
Balance at December 31| $| 1,627 | | $| 2,109 | | $| 2,512 |  
  
Number of projects with exploratory well costs that have been capitalized for
a period greater than one year*

| 12 | | 15 | | 17 |  
  
*Certain projects have multiple wells or fields or both.

Of the $1,554 of exploratory well costs capitalized for more than one year at
December 31, 2022, $945 is related to seven projects that had drilling
activities underway or firmly planned for the near future. The $609 balance is
related to five projects in areas requiring a major capital expenditure before
production could begin and for which additional drilling efforts were not
underway or firmly planned for the near future. Additional drilling was not
deemed necessary because the presence of hydrocarbons had already been
established, and other activities were in process to enable a future decision
on project development.

The projects for the $609 referenced above had the following activities
associated with assessing the reserves and the projects' economic viability:
(a) $194 (three projects) - undergoing front-end engineering and design with
final investment decision expected within four years; (b) $415 (two projects)
- development alternatives under review. While progress was being made on all
12 projects, the decision on the recognition of proved reserves under SEC
rules in some cases may not occur for several years because of the complexity,
scale and negotiations associated with the projects. More than three-quarters
of these decisions are expected to occur in the next five years.

The $1,554 of suspended well costs capitalized for a period greater than one
year as of December 31, 2022, represents 71 exploratory wells in 12 projects.
The tables below contain the aging of these costs on a well and project basis:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Aging based on drilling completion date of individual wells:| Amount| | |
Number of wells  
2000-2009| $| 263 | | | | 14 |  
2010-2014| 1,121 | | | | 49 |  
2015-2021| 170 | | | | 8 |  
Total| $| 1,554 | | | | 71 |  
| | | |  
Aging based on drilling completion date of last suspended well in project:|
Amount| | | Number of projects  
2008-2013| $| 428 | | | | 5 |  
2014-2018| 1,083 | | | | 6 |  
2019-2022| 43 | | | | 1 |  
Total| $| 1,554 | | | | 12 |  
  
Note 22

Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation

Compensation expense for stock options for 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $60 ($46
after tax), $60 ($47 after tax) and $94 ($74 after tax), respectively. In
addition, compensation expense for stock appreciation rights, restricted
stock, performance shares and restricted stock units was $1,013 ($770 after
tax), $701 ($554 after tax) and $96 ($76 after tax) for 2022, 2021 and 2020,
respectively. No significant stock-based compensation cost was capitalized at
December 31, 2022, or December 31, 2021.

87

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Cash received in payment for option exercises under all share-based payment
arrangements for 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $5,835, $1,274 and $226,
respectively. Actual tax benefits realized for the tax deductions from option
exercises were $216, $(15) and $8 for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Cash paid to settle performance shares, restricted stock units and stock
appreciation rights was $556, $163 and $95 for 2022, 2021 and 2020,
respectively.

On May 25, 2022, stockholders approved the Chevron 2022 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (2022 LTIP). Awards under the 2022 LTIP may take the form of, but are not
limited to, stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock
appreciation rights, performance shares and non-stock grants. From May 2022
through May 2032, no more than 104 million shares may be issued under the 2022
LTIP. For awards issued on or after May 25, 2022, no more than 48 million of
those shares may be issued in the form of full value awards such as share-
settled restricted stock, share-settled restricted stock units and other
share-settled awards that do not require full payment in cash or property for
shares underlying such awards by the award recipient. For the major types of
awards issued before January 1, 2017, the contractual terms vary between three
years for the performance shares and restricted stock units, and 10 years for
the stock options and stock appreciation rights. For awards issued after
January 1, 2017, contractual terms vary between three years for the
performance shares and special restricted stock units, five years for standard
restricted stock units and 10 years for the stock options and stock
appreciation rights. Commencing for grants issued in January 2023 and after,
standard restricted stock units vest ratably on an annual basis over a three-
year period. Forfeitures of performance shares, restricted stock units, and
stock appreciation rights are recognized as they occur. Forfeitures of stock
options are estimated using historical forfeiture data dating back to 1990.

Noble Share-Based Plans (Noble Plans) When Chevron acquired Noble in October
2020, outstanding stock options granted under various Noble Plans were
exchanged for Chevron options. These awards retained the same provisions as
the original Noble Plans. Awards issued may be exercised for up to five years
after termination of employment, depending upon the termination type, or the
original expiration date, whichever is earlier. Other awards issued under the
Noble Plans included restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, and
performance shares, which retained the same provisions as the original Noble
Plans. Upon termination of employment due to change-in-control, all unvested
awards issued under the Noble Plans, including stock options, restricted stock
awards, restricted stock units and performance shares vested on the
termination date. If not exercised, awards will expire between 2023 and 2029.

Fair Value and Assumptions The fair market values of stock options and stock
appreciation rights granted in 2022, 2021 and 2020 were measured on the date
of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020|  
  
Expected term in years1

| 6.9| | | 6.8| | 6.6|  
  
Volatility2

| 31.3 | | %| | 31.1 | | %| 20.8 | | %  
  
Risk-free interest rate based on zero coupon U.S. treasury note

| 1.79 | | %| | 0.71 | | %| 1.50 | | %  
Dividend yield| 5.0 | | %| | 6.0 | | %| 4.0 | | %  
Weighted-average fair value per option granted| $| 23.56 | | | | $| 12.22 | |
| $| 13.00 | |  
  
1 Expected term is based on historical exercise and post-vesting cancellation
data.

2 Volatility rate is based on historical stock prices over an appropriate
period, generally equal to the expected term.

A summary of option activity during 2022 is presented below:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Shares (Thousands)| Weighted-Average  
Exercise Price| | Averaged Remaining Contractual Term (Years)| Aggregate
Intrinsic Value  
Outstanding at January 1, 2022| 77,399 | | | $| 108.10 | | | | |  
Granted| 3,870 | | | $| 132.69 | | | | |  
Exercised| (55,275)| | | $| 105.56 | | | | |  
Forfeited| (729)| | | $| 208.46 | | | | |  
Outstanding at December 31, 2022| 25,265 | | | $| 114.61 | | | 6.62| | $|
1,794 |  
Exercisable at December 31, 2022| 16,421 | | | $| 117.20 | | | 5.18| | $|
1,178 |  
  
The total intrinsic value (i.e., the difference between the exercise price and
the market price) of options exercised during 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $2,369,
$152 and $92, respectively. During this period, the company continued its
practice of issuing treasury shares upon exercise of these awards.

88

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

As of December 31, 2022, there was $78 of total unrecognized before-tax
compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements
granted under the plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 1.8 years.

At January 1, 2022, the number of LTIP performance shares outstanding was
equivalent to 5,023,065 shares. During 2022, 1,552,624 performance shares were
granted, 1,652,839 shares vested with cash proceeds distributed to recipients
and 169,584 shares were forfeited. At December 31, 2022, there were 4,753,266
performance shares outstanding that are payable in cash. The fair value of the
liability recorded for these instruments was $996 and was measured largely
using the Monte Carlo simulation method.

At January 1, 2022, the number of restricted stock units outstanding was
equivalent to 4,386,637 shares. During 2022, 989,715 restricted stock units
were granted, 979,382 units vested with cash proceeds distributed to
recipients and 109,144 units were forfeited. At December 31, 2022, there were
4,287,826 restricted stock units outstanding that are payable in cash. The
fair value of the liability recorded for the vested portion of these
instruments was $548, valued at the stock price as of December 31, 2022. In
addition, outstanding stock appreciation rights that were granted under the
LTIP totaled 686,573 equivalent shares as of December 31, 2022. The fair value
of the liability recorded for the vested portion of these instruments was $50.

Note 23

Employee Benefit Plans

The company has defined benefit pension plans for many employees. The company
typically prefunds defined benefit plans as required by local regulations or
in certain situations where prefunding provides economic advantages. In the
United States, all qualified plans are subject to the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (ERISA) minimum funding standard. The company does not
typically fund U.S. nonqualified pension plans that are not subject to funding
requirements under laws and regulations because contributions to these pension
plans may be less economic and investment returns may be less attractive than
the company's other investment alternatives.

The company also sponsors other postretirement benefit (OPEB) plans that
provide medical and dental benefits, as well as life insurance for some active
and qualifying retired employees. The plans are unfunded, and the company and
retirees share the costs. For the company's main U.S. medical plan, the
increase to the pre-Medicare company contribution for retiree medical coverage
is limited to no more than 4 percent each year. Certain life insurance
benefits are paid by the company.

The company recognizes the overfunded or underfunded status of each of its
defined benefit pension and OPEB plans as an asset or liability on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet.

89

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

The funded status of the company's pension and OPEB plans for 2022 and 2021
follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits| |  
| 2022| | | 2021| | Other Benefits  
| U.S.| | Int'l.| | | U.S.| | Int'l.| | 2022| | | 2021  
Change in Benefit Obligation| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Benefit obligation at January 1| $| 12,966 | | | $| 5,351 | | | | $| 15,166 |
| | $| 6,307 | | | $| 2,489 | | | | $| 2,650 |  
Service cost| 432 | | | 83 | | | | 450 | | | 123 | | | 43 | | | | 43 |  
Interest cost| 318 | | | 137 | | | | 235 | | | 137 | | | 60 | | | | 53 |  
Plan participants' contributions| -- | | | 3 | | | | -- | | | 3 | | | 62 | | |
| 43 |  
Plan amendments| 40 | | | 38 | | | | -- | | | -- | | | 18 | | | | -- |  
Actuarial (gain) loss| (2,753)| | | (1,559)| | | | (325)| | | (364)| | |
(509)| | | | (108)|  
Foreign currency exchange rate changes| -- | | | (423)| | | | -- | | | (85)| |
| (5)| | | | (3)|  
Benefits paid| (1,290)| | | (276)| | | | (2,560)| | | (746)| | | (220)| | | |
(189)|  
Divestitures/Acquisitions| -- | | | -- | | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | | --
|  
Curtailment| -- | | | -- | | | | -- | | | (24)| | | -- | | | | -- |  
Benefit obligation at December 31| 9,713 | | | 3,354 | | | | 12,966 | | |
5,351 | | | 1,938 | | | | 2,489 |  
Change in Plan Assets| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Fair value of plan assets at January 1| 9,919 | | | 4,950 | | | | 9,930 | | |
5,363 | | | -- | | | | -- |  
Actual return on plan assets| (1,851)| | | (1,096)| | | | 997 | | | 166 | | |
-- | | | | -- |  
Foreign currency exchange rate changes| -- | | | (453)| | | | -- | | | (35)| |
| -- | | | | -- |  
Employer contributions| 1,164 | | | 158 | | | | 1,552 | | | 199 | | | 158 | |
| | 146 |  
Plan participants' contributions| -- | | | 3 | | | | -- | | | 3 | | | 62 | | |
| 43 |  
Benefits paid| (1,290)| | | (276)| | | | (2,560)| | | (746)| | | (220)| | | |
(189)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Fair value of plan assets at December 31| 7,942 | | | 3,286 | | | | 9,919 | |
| 4,950 | | | -- | | | | -- |  
Funded status at December 31| $| (1,771)| | | $| (68)| | | | $| (3,047)| | |
$| (401)| | | $| (1,938)| | | | $| (2,489)|  
  
Amounts recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the company's pension
and OPEB plans at December 31, 2022 and 2021, include:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits| |  
| 2022| | | 2021| | Other Benefits  
| U.S.| | Int'l.| | | U.S.| | Int'l.| | 2022| | | 2021  
Deferred charges and other assets| $| 26 | | | $| 759 | | | | $| 36 | | | $|
696 | | | $| -- | | | | $| -- |  
Accrued liabilities| (210)| | | (62)| | | | (303)| | | (142)| | | (152)| | | |
(151)|  
Noncurrent employee benefit plans| (1,587)| | | (765)| | | | (2,780)| | |
(955)| | | (1,786)| | | | (2,338)|  
Net amount recognized at December 31| $| (1,771)| | | $| (68)| | | | $|
(3,047)| | | $| (401)| | | $| (1,938)| | | | $| (2,489)|  
  
For the year ended December 31, 2022, the decrease in benefit obligations was
primarily due to actuarial gains caused by higher discount rates used to value
the obligations and benefit payments paid to retirees in 2022. For the year
ended December 31, 2021, the decrease in benefit obligations was primarily due
to actuarial gains caused by higher discount rates used to value the
obligations and large benefit payments paid to retirees in 2021.

Amounts recognized on a before-tax basis in "Accumulated other comprehensive
loss" for the company's pension and OPEB plans were $3,446 and $4,979 at the
end of 2022 and 2021, respectively. These amounts consisted of:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits| |  
| 2022| | | 2021| | Other Benefits  
| U.S.| | Int'l.| | | U.S.| | Int'l.| | 2022| | | 2021  
Net actuarial loss| $| 3,147 | | | $| 659 | | | | $| 4,007 | | | $| 920 | | |
$| (392)| | | | $| 134 |  
Prior service (credit) costs| 40 | | | 107 | | | | 2 | | | 75 | | | (115)| | |
| (159)|  
Total recognized at December 31| $| 3,187 | | | $| 766 | | | | $| 4,009 | | |
$| 995 | | | $| (507)| | | | $| (25)|  
  
The accumulated benefit obligations for all U.S. and international pension
plans were $8,595 and $3,084, respectively, at December 31, 2022, and $11,337
and $4,976, respectively, at December 31, 2021.

Information for U.S. and international pension plans with an accumulated
benefit obligation in excess of plan assets at December 31, 2022 and 2021,
was:

90

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits  
| 2022| | | 2021  
| U.S.| | Int'l.| | | U.S.| | Int'l.  
Projected benefit obligations| $| 1,322 | | | $| 828 | | | | $| 1,957 | | | $|
1,097 |  
Accumulated benefit obligations| 1,135 | | | 671 | | | | 1,665 | | | 883 |  
Fair value of plan assets| -- | | | 3 | | | | 55 | | | 2 |  
  
The components of net periodic benefit cost and amounts recognized in the
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for 2022, 2021 and 2020 are
shown in the table below:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits| | | | | | |  
| 2022| | | 2021| 2020| | Other Benefits  
| U.S.| Int'l.| | | U.S.| Int'l.| U.S.| Int'l.| | 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Net Periodic Benefit Cost| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Service cost| $| 432 | | $| 83 | | | | $| 450 | | $| 123 | | $| 497 | | $| 130
| | | $| 43 | | | | $| 43 | | | $| 38 |  
Interest cost| 318 | | 137 | | | | 235 | | 137 | | 353 | | 175 | | | 60 | | |
| 53 | | | 71 |  
Expected return on plan assets| (624)| | (176)| | | | (596)| | (171)| | (650)|
| (209)| | | -- | | | | -- | | | -- |  
Amortization of prior service costs (credits)| 2 | | 6 | | | | 2 | | 8 | | 2 |
| 10 | | | (27)| | | | (27)| | | (28)|  
Recognized actuarial losses| 218 | | 15 | | | | 309 | | 46 | | 385 | | 45 | |
| 13 | | | | 16 | | | 3 |  
Settlement losses| 363 | | (6)| | | | 672 | | 7 | | 620 | | 37 | | | -- | | |
| -- | | | -- |  
Curtailment losses (gains)| -- | | (5)| | | | -- | | (1)| | 92 | | 2 | | | --
| | | | -- | | | (27)|  
Total net periodic benefit cost| 709 | | 54 | | | | 1,072 | | 149 | | 1,299 |
| 190 | | | 89 | | | | 85 | | | 57 |  
Changes Recognized in Comprehensive Income| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Net actuarial (gain) loss during period| (279)| | (257)| | | | (725)| | (408)|
| 1,584 | | 230 | | | (514)| | | | (111)| | | 190 |  
Amortization of actuarial loss| (581)| | (5)| | | | (981)| | (73)| | (1,005)|
| (98)| | | (13)| | | | (15)| | | (4)|  
Prior service (credits) costs during period| 40 | | 38 | | | | -- | | -- | |
-- | | -- | | | 18 | | | | -- | | | -- |  
Amortization of prior service (costs) credits| (2)| | (6)| | | | (2)| | (11)|
| (2)| | (17)| | | 27 | | | | 27 | | | 42 |  
  
Total changes recognized in other  
comprehensive income

| (822)| | (230)| | | | (1,708)| | (492)| | 577 | | 115 | | | (482)| | | |
(99)| | | 228 |  
  
Recognized in Net Periodic Benefit Cost and Other Comprehensive Income

| $| (113)| | $| (176)| | | | $| (636)| | $| (343)| | $| 1,876 | | $| 305 | |
| $| (393)| | | | $| (14)| | | $| 285 |  
  
Assumptions The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine
benefit obligations and net periodic benefit costs for years ended December
31:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits| | | | | | |  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020| | | | | Other Benefits  
| U.S.| Int'l.| | | U.S.| Int'l.| | U.S.| Int'l.| | 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
  
Assumptions used to determine benefit obligations:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Discount rate| 5.2 | %| 5.8 | %| | | 2.8 | %| 2.8 | %| | 2.4 | %| 2.4 | %| |
5.3 | %| | | 2.9 | %| | 2.6 | %  
Rate of compensation increase| 4.5 | %| 4.2 | %| | | 4.5 | %| 4.1 | %| | 4.5 |
%| 4.0 | %| | N/A| | | N/A| | N/A  
  
Assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Discount rate for service cost| 3.6 | %| 2.8 | %| | | 3.0 | %| 2.4 | %| | 3.3
| %| 3.2 | %| | 3.1 | %| | | 3.0 | %| | 3.5 | %  
Discount rate for interest cost| 2.8 | %| 2.8 | %| | | 1.9 | %| 2.4 | %| | 2.6
| %| 3.2 | %| | 2.4 | %| | | 2.1 | %| | 3.0 | %  
Expected return on plan assets| 6.6 | %| 3.9 | %| | | 6.5 | %| 3.5 | %| | 6.5
| %| 4.5 | %| | N/A| | | N/A| | N/A  
Rate of compensation increase| 4.5 | %| 4.1 | %| | | 4.5 | %| 4.0 | %| | 4.5 |
%| 4.0 | %| | N/A| | | N/A| | N/A  
  
Expected Return on Plan Assets The company's estimated long-term rates of
return on pension assets are driven primarily by actual historical asset-class
returns, an assessment of expected future performance, advice from external
actuarial firms and the incorporation of specific asset-class risk factors.
Asset allocations are periodically updated using pension plan asset/liability
studies, and the company's estimated long-term rates of return are consistent
with these studies. For 2022, the company used an expected long-term rate of
return of 6.6 percent for U.S. pension plan assets, which account for 67
percent of the company's pension plan assets.

The market-related value of assets of the main U.S. pension plan used in the
determination of pension expense was based on the market values in the three
months preceding the year-end measurement date. Management considers the
three-month time period long enough to minimize the effects of distortions
from day-to-day market volatility and still be contemporaneous to the end of
the year. For other plans, market value of assets as of year-end is used in
calculating the pension expense.

91

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Discount Rate The discount rate assumptions used to determine the U.S. and
international pension and OPEB plan obligations and expense reflect the rate
at which benefits could be effectively settled, and are equal to the
equivalent single rate resulting from yield curve analysis. This analysis
considered the projected benefit payments specific to the company's plans and
the yields on high-quality bonds. The projected cash flows were discounted to
the valuation date using the yield curve for the main U.S. pension and OPEB
plans. The effective discount rates derived from this analysis were 5.2
percent, 2.8 percent, and 2.4 percent for 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively,
for both the main U.S. pension and OPEB plans.

Other Benefit Assumptions For the measurement of accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation at December 31, 2022, for the main U.S. OPEB plan, the
assumed health care cost-trend rates start with 6.6 percent in 2023 and
gradually decline to 4.5 percent for 2032 and beyond. For this measurement at
December 31, 2021, the assumed health care cost-trend rates started with 6.2
percent in 2022 and gradually declined to 4.5 percent for 2031 and beyond.

Plan Assets and Investment Strategy

The fair value measurements of the company's pension plans for 2022 and 2021
are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| U.S.| | | Int'l.  
| Total| | Level 1| | Level 2| | Level 3| | NAV| | | Total | | Level 1| |
Level 2| | Level 3| | NAV  
At December 31, 2021| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equities| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
U.S.1

| $| 1,677 | | | $| 1,677 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | | $| 491 |
| | $| 491 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $| -- |  
International| 1,285 | | | 1,284 | | | -- | | | 1 | | | -- | | | | 356 | | |
355 | | | -- | | | 1 | | | -- |  
  
Collective Trusts/Mutual Funds2

| 2,541 | | | 32 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 2,509 | | | | 134 | | | 6 | | | -- |
| | -- | | | 128 |  
Fixed Income| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Government| 215 | | | -- | | | 215 | | | -- | | | -- | | | | 229 | | | 135 | |
| 94 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Corporate| 660 | | | -- | | | 660 | | | -- | | | -- | | | | 532 | | | 2 | | |
530 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Bank Loans| 137 | | | -- | | | 136 | | | 1 | | | -- | | | | -- | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Mortgage/Asset Backed| 1 | | | -- | | | 1 | | | -- | | | -- | | | | 4 | | | --
| | | 4 | | | -- | | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Collective Trusts/Mutual Funds2

| 1,907 | | | 13 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 1,894 | | | | 2,388 | | | 1 | | | --
| | | -- | | | 2,387 |  
  
Mixed Funds3

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | | 99 | | | 12 | | | 87 | | | --
| | | -- |  
  
Real Estate4

| 1,172 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 1,172 | | | | 312 | | | -- | | | -- |
| | 42 | | | 270 |  
Alternative Investments| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | | -- | |
| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Cash and Cash Equivalents| 264 | | | 263 | | | 1 | | | -- | | | -- | | | | 161
| | | 89 | | | 3 | | | -- | | | 69 |  
  
Other5

| 60 | | | (1)| | | 14 | | | 46 | | | 1 | | | | 244 | | | -- | | | 17 | | |
113 | | | 114 |  
Total at December 31, 2021| $| 9,919 | | | $| 3,268 | | | $| 1,027 | | | $| 48
| | | $| 5,576 | | | | $| 4,950 | | | $| 1,091 | | | $| 735 | | | $| 156 | | |
$| 2,968 |  
At December 31, 2022| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Equities| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
U.S.1

| $| 1,358 | | | $| 1,358 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | | $| 164 |
| | $| 164 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $| -- |  
International| 946 | | | 946 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | | 120 | | | 120
| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
  
Collective Trusts/Mutual Funds2

| 1,695 | | | 4 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 1,691 | | | | 87 | | | 6 | | | -- | |
| -- | | | 81 |  
Fixed Income| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Government| 110 | | | -- | | | 110 | | | -- | | | -- | | | | 185 | | | 127 | |
| 58 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Corporate| 680 | | | -- | | | 680 | | | -- | | | -- | | | | 343 | | | 15 | | |
328 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Bank Loans| 45 | | | -- | | | 45 | | | -- | | | -- | | | | -- | | | -- | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Mortgage/Asset Backed| 1 | | | -- | | | 1 | | | -- | | | -- | | | | 4 | | | --
| | | 4 | | | -- | | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Collective Trusts/Mutual Funds2

| 1,616 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 1,616 | | | | 1,750 | | | -- | | | --
| | | -- | | | 1,750 |  
  
Mixed Funds3

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | | 87 | | | 14 | | | 73 | | | --
| | | -- |  
  
Real Estate4

| 1,184 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 1,184 | | | | 198 | | | -- | | | -- |
| | 38 | | | 160 |  
Alternative Investments| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | | -- | |
| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Cash and Cash Equivalents| 200 | | | 25 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 175 | | | | 80
| | | 69 | | | 2 | | | -- | | | 9 |  
  
Other5

| 107 | | | 37 | | | 15 | | | 54 | | | 1 | | | | 268 | | | -- | | | 18 | | |
85 | | | 165 |  
Total at December 31, 2022| $| 7,942 | | | $| 2,370 | | | $| 851 | | | $| 54 |
| | $| 4,667 | | | | $| 3,286 | | | $| 515 | | | $| 483 | | | $| 123 | | | $|
2,165 |  
  
1U.S. equities include investments in the company's common stock in the amount
of $0 at December 31, 2022, and $0 at December 31, 2021.

2Collective Trusts/Mutual Funds for U.S. plans are entirely index funds; for
International plans, they are mostly unit trust and index funds.

3Mixed funds are composed of funds that invest in both equity and fixed-income
instruments in order to diversify and lower risk.

4The year-end valuations of the U.S. real estate assets are based on third-
party appraisals that occur at least once a year for each property in the
portfolio.

5The "Other" asset class includes net payables for securities purchased but
not yet settled (Level 1); dividends and interest- and tax-related receivables
(Level 2); insurance contracts (Level 3); and investments in private-equity
limited partnerships (NAV).

92

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

The effects of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs
on changes in Level 3 plan assets are outlined below:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Equity| | Fixed Income| | | | | | | | |  
| International| | Corporate| | | Bank Loans| | | Real Estate| | | Other| | |
Total  
Total at December 31, 2020| $| 1 | | | $| -- | | | | $| 2 | | | | $| 45 | | |
| $| 45 | | | | $| 93 |  
Actual Return on Plan Assets:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Assets held at the reporting date| -- | | | -- | | | | -- | | | | -- | | | | 4
| | | | 4 |  
Assets sold during the period| -- | | | -- | | | | -- | | | | (3)| | | | -- |
| | | (3)|  
Purchases, Sales and Settlements| -- | | | -- | | | | (2)| | | | -- | | | | 4
| | | | 2 |  
Transfers in and/or out of Level 3| -- | | | -- | | | | -- | | | | -- | | | |
108 | | | | 108 |  
Total at December 31, 2021| $| 1 | | | $| -- | | | | $| -- | | | | $| 42 | | |
| $| 161 | | | | $| 204 |  
Actual Return on Plan Assets:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Assets held at the reporting date| (1)| | | -- | | | | -- | | | | -- | | | |
(18)| | | | (19)|  
Assets sold during the period| -- | | | -- | | | | -- | | | | (4)| | | | -- |
| | | (4)|  
Purchases, Sales and Settlements| -- | | | -- | | | | -- | | | | -- | | | |
(4)| | | | (4)|  
Transfers in and/or out of Level 3| -- | | | -- | | | | -- | | | | -- | | | |
-- | | | | -- |  
Total at December 31, 2022| $| -- | | | $| -- | | | | $| -- | | | | $| 38 | |
| | $| 139 | | | | $| 177 |  
  
The primary investment objectives of the pension plans are to achieve the
highest rate of total return within prudent levels of risk and liquidity, to
diversify and mitigate potential downside risk associated with the
investments, and to provide adequate liquidity for benefit payments and
portfolio management.

The company's U.S. and U.K. pension plans comprise 94 percent of the total
pension assets. Both the U.S. and U.K. plans have an Investment Committee that
regularly meets during the year to review the asset holdings and their
returns. To assess the plans' investment performance, long-term asset
allocation policy benchmarks have been established.

For the primary U.S. pension plan, the company's Investment Committee has
established the following approved asset allocation ranges: Equities 35-65
percent, Fixed Income 25-45 percent, Real Estate 5-25 percent, Alternative
Investments 0-5 percent and Cash 0-15 percent. For the U.K. pension plan, the
U.K. Board of Trustees has established the following asset allocation
guidelines: Equities 5-15 percent, Fixed Income 35-45 percent, Real Estate
5-15 percent, and Cash 0-5 percent. The other significant international
pension plans also have established maximum and minimum asset allocation
ranges that vary by plan. Actual asset allocation within approved ranges is
based on a variety of factors, including market conditions and illiquidity
constraints. To mitigate concentration and other risks, assets are invested
across multiple asset classes with active investment managers and passive
index funds.

The company does not prefund its OPEB obligations.

Cash Contributions and Benefit Payments In 2022, the company contributed
$1,164 and $158 to its U.S. and international pension plans, respectively. In
2023, the company expects contributions to be approximately $1,000 to its U.S.
plans and $100 to its international pension plans. Actual contribution amounts
are dependent upon investment returns, changes in pension obligations,
regulatory environments, tax law changes and other economic factors.
Additional funding may ultimately be required if investment returns are
insufficient to offset increases in plan obligations.

The company anticipates paying OPEB benefits of approximately $150 in 2023;
$158 was paid in 2022.

The following benefit payments, which include estimated future service, are
expected to be paid by the company in the next 10 years:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension Benefits| | Other  
| U.S.| | Int'l.| | Benefits  
2023| $| 903 | | | $| 203 | | | $| 152 |  
2024| 846 | | | 206 | | | 150 |  
2025| 854 | | | 214 | | | 148 |  
2026| 850 | | | 227 | | | 146 |  
2027| 840 | | | 236 | | | 145 |  
2028-2031| 4,066 | | | 1,306 | | | 708 |  
  
Employee Savings Investment Plan Eligible employees of Chevron and certain of
its subsidiaries participate in the Chevron Employee Savings Investment Plan
(ESIP). Compensation expense for the ESIP totaled $283, $252 and $281 in 2022,
2021 and 2020, respectively.

93

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

Benefit Plan Trusts Prior to its acquisition by Chevron, Texaco established a
benefit plan trust for funding obligations under some of its benefit plans. At
year-end 2022, the trust contained 14.2 million shares of Chevron treasury
stock. The trust will sell the shares or use the dividends from the shares to
pay benefits only to the extent that the company does not pay such benefits.
The company intends to continue to pay its obligations under the benefit
plans. The trustee will vote the shares held in the trust as instructed by the
trust's beneficiaries. The shares held in the trust are not considered
outstanding for earnings-per-share purposes until distributed or sold by the
trust in payment of benefit obligations.

Prior to its acquisition by Chevron, Unocal established various grantor trusts
to fund obligations under some of its benefit plans, including the deferred
compensation and supplemental retirement plans. At December 31, 2022 and 2021,
trust assets of $35 and $36, respectively, were invested primarily in
interest-earning accounts.

Employee Incentive Plans The Chevron Incentive Plan is an annual cash bonus
plan for eligible employees that links awards to corporate, business unit and
individual performance in the prior year. Charges to expense for cash bonuses
were $1,169, $1,165 and $462 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Chevron
also has the LTIP for officers and other regular salaried employees of the
company and its subsidiaries who hold positions of significant responsibility.
Awards under the LTIP consist of stock options and other share-based
compensation that are described in Note 22 Stock Options and Other Share-Based
Compensation.

Note 24

Other Contingencies and Commitments

Income Taxes The company calculates its income tax expense and liabilities
quarterly. These liabilities generally are subject to audit and are not
finalized with the individual taxing authorities until several years after the
end of the annual period for which income taxes have been calculated. Refer to
Note 17 Taxes for a discussion of the periods for which tax returns have been
audited for the company's major tax jurisdictions and a discussion for all tax
jurisdictions of the differences between the amount of tax benefits recognized
in the financial statements and the amount taken or expected to be taken in a
tax return.

Settlement of open tax years, as well as other tax issues in countries where
the company conducts its businesses, are not expected to have a material
effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of the company and,
in the opinion of management, adequate provisions have been made for all years
under examination or subject to future examination.

Guarantees The company has one guarantee to an equity affiliate totaling $175.
This guarantee is associated with certain payments under a terminal use
agreement entered into by an equity affiliate. Over the approximate 5-year
remaining term of this guarantee, the maximum guarantee amount will be reduced
as certain fees are paid by the affiliate. There are numerous cross-indemnity
agreements with the affiliate and the other partners to permit recovery of
amounts paid under the guarantee. Chevron has recorded no liability for this
guarantee.

Indemnifications The company often includes standard indemnification
provisions in its arrangements with its partners, suppliers and vendors in the
ordinary course of business, the terms of which range in duration and
sometimes are not limited. The company may be obligated to indemnify such
parties for losses or claims suffered or incurred in connection with its
service or other claims made against such parties.

Long-Term Unconditional Purchase Obligations and Commitments, Including
Throughput and Take-or-Pay Agreements The company and its subsidiaries have
certain contingent liabilities with respect to long-term unconditional
purchase obligations and commitments, including throughput and take-or-pay
agreements, some of which may relate to suppliers' financing arrangements. The
agreements typically provide goods and services, such as pipeline and storage
capacity, utilities, and petroleum products, to be used or sold in the
ordinary course of the company's business. The aggregate amounts of required
payments under throughput and take-or-pay agreements are: 2023 - $897; 2024 -
$959; 2025 - $941; 2026 - $1,002; 2027 - $1,053 ; after 2027 - $6,489. The
aggregate amount of required payments for other unconditional purchase
obligations are: 2023 - $349; 2024 - $425; 2025 - $322; 2026 - $358; 2027 -
$311; after 2027 - $1,233. A portion of these commitments may ultimately be
shared with project partners. Total payments under the agreements were $1,866
in 2022, $861 in 2021 and $514 in 2020.

Environmental  The company is subject to loss contingencies pursuant to laws,
regulations, private claims and legal proceedings related to environmental
matters that are subject to legal settlements or that in the future may
require the company to take action to correct or ameliorate the effects on the
environment of prior release of chemicals or petroleum substances by the
company or other parties. Such contingencies may exist for various operating,
closed and divested sites,

94

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

including, but not limited to, U.S. federal Superfund sites and analogous
sites under state laws, refineries, chemical plants, marketing facilities,
crude oil fields, and mining sites.

Although the company has provided for known environmental obligations that are
probable and reasonably estimable, it is likely that the company will continue
to incur additional liabilities. The amount of additional future costs are not
fully determinable due to such factors as the unknown magnitude of possible
contamination, the unknown timing and extent of the corrective actions that
may be required, the determination of the company's liability in proportion to
other responsible parties, and the extent to which such costs are recoverable
from third parties. These future costs may be material to results of
operations in the period in which they are recognized, but the company does
not expect these costs will have a material effect on its consolidated
financial position or liquidity.

Chevron's environmental reserve as of December 31, 2022, was $868. Included in
this balance was $218 related to remediation activities at approximately 143
sites for which the company had been identified as a potentially responsible
party under the provisions of the U.S. federal Superfund law or analogous
state laws which provide for joint and several liability for all responsible
parties. Any future actions by regulatory agencies to require Chevron to
assume other potentially responsible parties' costs at designated hazardous
waste sites are not expected to have a material effect on the company's
results of operations, consolidated financial position or liquidity.

Of the remaining year-end 2022 environmental reserves balance of $650, $384 is
related to the company's U.S. downstream operations, $44 to its international
downstream operations, and $222 to its upstream operations. Liabilities at all
sites were primarily associated with the company's plans and activities to
remediate soil or groundwater contamination or both.

The company manages environmental liabilities under specific sets of
regulatory requirements, which in the United States include the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act and various state and local regulations. No
single remediation site at year-end 2022 had a recorded liability that was
material to the company's results of operations, consolidated financial
position or liquidity.

Refer to Note 25 Asset Retirement Obligations for a discussion of the
company's asset retirement obligations.

Other Contingencies Chevron receives claims from and submits claims to
customers; trading partners; joint venture partners; U.S. federal, state and
local regulatory bodies; governments; contractors; insurers; suppliers; and
individuals. The amounts of these claims, individually and in the aggregate,
may be significant and take lengthy periods to resolve, and may result in
gains or losses in future periods.

The company and its affiliates also continue to review and analyze their
operations and may close, retire, sell, exchange, acquire or restructure
assets to achieve operational or strategic benefits and to improve
competitiveness and profitability. These activities, individually or together,
may result in significant gains or losses in future periods.

Note 25

Asset Retirement Obligations

The company records the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement
obligation (ARO) both as an asset and a liability when there is a legal
obligation associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset and
the liability can be reasonably estimated. The legal obligation to perform the
asset retirement activity is unconditional, even though uncertainty may exist
about the timing and/or method of settlement that may be beyond the company's
control. This uncertainty about the timing and/or method of settlement is
factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information
exists to reasonably estimate fair value. Recognition of the ARO includes: (1)
the present value of a liability and offsetting asset, (2) the subsequent
accretion of that liability and depreciation of the asset, and (3) the
periodic review of the ARO liability estimates and discount rates.

AROs are primarily recorded for the company's crude oil and natural gas
producing assets. No significant AROs associated with any legal obligations to
retire downstream long-lived assets have been recognized, as indeterminate
settlement dates for the asset retirements prevent estimation of the fair
value of the associated ARO. The company performs periodic reviews of its
downstream long-lived assets for any changes in facts and circumstances that
might require recognition of a retirement obligation.

95

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

The following table indicates the changes to the company's before-tax asset
retirement obligations in 2022, 2021 and 2020:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Balance at January 1| $| 12,808 | | | | $| 13,616 | | | $| 12,832 |  
Liabilities assumed in the Noble acquisition| -- | | | | -- | | | 630 |  
Liabilities incurred| 9 | | | | 31 | | | 10 |  
Liabilities settled| (1,281)| | | | (1,887)| | | (1,661)|  
Accretion expense| 560 | | | | 616 | | | 560 |  
Revisions in estimated cash flows| 605 | | | | 432 | | | 1,245 |  
Balance at December 31| $| 12,701 | | | | $| 12,808 | | | $| 13,616 |  
  
In the table above, the amount associated with "Revisions in estimated cash
flows" in 2021 primarily reflects increased cost estimates and scope changes
to decommission wells, equipment and facilities. The long-term portion of the
$12,701 balance at the end of 2022 was $11,419.

Note 26

Revenue

Revenue from contracts with customers is presented in "Sales and other
operating revenues" along with some activity that is accounted for outside the
scope of Accounting Standard Codification (ASC) 606, which is not material to
this line, on the Consolidated Statement of Income. Purchases and sales of
inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of
one another (including buy/sell arrangements) are combined and recorded on a
net basis and reported in "Purchased crude oil and products" on the
Consolidated Statement of Income. Refer to Note 14 Operating Segments and
Geographic Data for additional information on the company's segmentation of
revenue.

Receivables related to revenue from contracts with customers are included in
"Accounts and notes receivable, net" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, net of
the allowance for doubtful accounts. The net balance of these receivables was
$14,219 and $12,877 at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Other items
included in "Accounts and notes receivable, net" represent amounts due from
partners for their share of joint venture operating and project costs and
amounts due from others, primarily related to derivatives, leases, buy/sell
arrangements and product exchanges, which are accounted for outside the scope
of ASC 606.

Contract assets and related costs are reflected in "Prepaid expenses and other
current assets" and contract liabilities are reflected in "Accrued
liabilities" and "Deferred credits and other noncurrent obligations" on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Amounts for these items are not material to the
company's financial position.

Note 27

Other Financial Information

Earnings in 2022 included after-tax gains of approximately $390 relating to
the sale of certain properties. Of this amount, approximately $90 and $300
related to downstream and upstream, respectively. Earnings in 2021 included
after-tax gains of approximately $785 relating to the sale of certain
properties, of which approximately $30 and $755 related to downstream and
upstream assets, respectively. Earnings in 2020 included after-tax gains of
approximately $765 relating to the sale of certain properties, of which
approximately $30 and $735 related to downstream and upstream assets,
respectively.

Earnings in 2022 included after-tax charges of approximately $1,075 for
impairments and other asset write-offs and $600 for an early contract
termination in upstream, and $271 for pension settlement costs. Earnings in
2021 included after-tax charges of approximately $519 for pension settlement
costs, $260 for early retirement of debt, $120 relating to upstream
remediation and $110 relating to downstream legal reserves. Earnings in 2020
included after-tax charges of approximately $4,800 for impairments and other
asset write-offs related to upstream.

96

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Other financial information is as follows:

| | | | | |  
| Year ended December 31  
| 2022| | | 2021| | 2020  
Total financing interest and debt costs| $| 630 | | | | $| 775 | | | $| 735 |  
Less: Capitalized interest| 114 | | | | 63 | | | 38 |  
Interest and debt expense| $| 516 | | | | $| 712 | | | $| 697 |  
Research and development expenses| $| 268 | | | | $| 268 | | | $| 435 |  
  
Excess of replacement cost over the carrying value of inventories (LIFO
method)

| $| 9,061 | | | | $| 5,588 | | | $| 2,749 |  
LIFO profits (losses) on inventory drawdowns included in earnings| $| 122 | |
| | $| 35 | | | $| (147)|  
  
Foreign currency effects*

| $| 669 | | | | $| 306 | | | $| (645)|  
  
* Includes $253, $180 and $(152) in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, for the company's share of equity affiliates' foreign currency effects.

The company has $4,722 in goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, of which
$4,370 is in the upstream segment primarily related to the 2005 acquisition of
Unocal and $352 is in the downstream segment. The company tested this goodwill
for impairment during 2022, and no impairment was required.

Note 28

Financial Instruments - Credit Losses

Chevron's expected credit loss allowance balance was $1.0 billion as of
December 31, 2022 and $745 million as of December 31, 2021, with a majority of
the allowance relating to non-trade receivable balances.

The majority of the company's receivable balance is concentrated in trade
receivables, with a balance of $18.2 billion as of December 31, 2022, which
reflects the company's diversified sources of revenues and is dispersed across
the company's broad worldwide customer base. As a result, the company believes
the concentration of credit risk is limited. The company routinely assesses
the financial strength of its customers. When the financial strength of a
customer is not considered sufficient, alternative risk mitigation measures
may be deployed, including requiring prepayments, letters of credit or other
acceptable forms of collateral. Once credit is extended and a receivable
balance exists, the company applies a quantitative calculation to current
trade receivable balances that reflects credit risk predictive analysis,
including probability of default and loss given default, which takes into
consideration current and forward-looking market data as well as the company's
historical loss data. This statistical approach becomes the basis of the
company's expected credit loss allowance for current trade receivables with
payment terms that are typically short-term in nature, with most due in less
than 90 days.

Chevron's non-trade receivable balance was $4.3 billion as of December 31,
2022, which includes receivables from certain governments in their capacity as
joint venture partners. Joint venture partner balances that are paid as per
contract terms or not yet due are subject to the statistical analysis
described above while past due balances are subject to additional qualitative
management quarterly review. This management review includes review of
reasonable and supportable repayment forecasts. Non-trade receivables also
include employee and tax receivables that are deemed immaterial and low risk.
Loans to equity affiliates and non-equity investees are also considered non-
trade and associated allowances of $560 million are included within
"Investments and Advances" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at both December
31, 2022 and December 31, 2021.

Note 29

Acquisition of Renewable Energy Group, Inc.

On June 13, 2022, the company acquired Renewable Energy Group, Inc. (REG), an
independent company focused on converting natural fats, oils and greases into
advanced biofuels. REG utilizes a global integrated production, procurement,
distribution and logistics network to operate 11 biorefineries in the U.S. and
Europe. Ten biorefineries produce biodiesel and one produces renewable diesel.
The acquisition combines REG's growing renewable fuels production and leading
feedstock capabilities with Chevron's large manufacturing, distribution and
commercial marketing position.

Chevron acquired outstanding shares of REG in an all-cash transaction valued
at $3.15 billion, or $61.50 per share. As part of the transaction, the company
recognized long-term debt and finance leases with a fair value of $590
million.

The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination under ASC 805,
which requires assets acquired and liabilities assumed to be measured at their
acquisition date fair values. Provisional fair value measurements were made
for acquired assets and liabilities, and adjustments to those measurements may
be made in subsequent periods, up to one year from the acquisition date, as
information necessary to complete the analysis is obtained. Tangible and
intangible assets were valued using a combination of replacement cost approach
and discounted cash flows that incorporated internally generated price
assumptions and production profiles together with appropriate operating and
capital cost assumptions. Debt assumed in the

97

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts|  
  
  

acquisition was valued based on observable market prices for REG's debt. As a
result of measuring the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at fair
value, the company recognized $293 million of goodwill.

The following table summarizes the values assigned to assets acquired and
liabilities assumed:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | At June 13, 2022  
| | | (Millions of dollars)  
Current assets| | | $| 1,584 |  
  
Properties, plant and equipment

| | | 1,778 |  
Deferred tax| | | 92 |  
Other assets| | | 374 |  
Total assets acquired| | | 3,828 |  
Current liabilities| | | 301 |  
Long-term debt and finance leases| | | 590 |  
Other liabilities| | | 75 |  
Total liabilities assumed| | | 966 |  
Net assets acquired| | | $| 2,862 |  
Goodwill| | | 293 |  
Purchase Price| | | $| 3,155 |  
  
Pro forma financial information is not disclosed as the acquisition was deemed
not to have a material impact on the company's results of operations.

98

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

In accordance with FASB and SEC disclosure requirements for oil and gas
producing activities, this section provides supplemental information on oil
and gas exploration and producing activities of the company in seven separate
tables. Tables I through IV provide historical cost information pertaining to
costs incurred in exploration, property acquisitions and development;
capitalized costs; and results of operations. Tables V through VII present
information on the company's estimated net proved reserve quantities,
standardized measure of estimated discounted future net cash flows related to

Table I - Costs Incurred in Exploration, Property Acquisitions and
Development1

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Consolidated Companies| | Affiliated Companies  
| | Other| | | | | | | |  
Millions of dollars| U.S.| Americas| Africa| Asia| Australia| Europe| Total| |
TCO| Other  
Year Ended December 31, 2022| | | | | | | | | |  
Exploration| | | | | | | | | |  
Wells| $| 239 | | $| 84 | | $| 78 | | $| 34 | | $| 4 | | $| -- | | $| 439 | |
| $| -- | | $| -- |  
Geological and geophysical| 98 | | 28 | | 110 | | -- | | 1 | | -- | | 237 | |
| -- | | -- |  
Other| 53 | | 72 | | 75 | | 30 | | 27 | | 2 | | 259 | | | -- | | -- |  
Total exploration| 390 | | 184 | | 263 | | 64 | | 32 | | 2 | | 935 | | | -- |
| -- |  
  
Property acquisitions2

| | | | | | | | | |  
Proved - Other| 18 | | -- | | 63 | | 13 | | -- | | -- | | 94 | | | -- | | -- |  
Unproved - Other| 104 | | 78 | | 73 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 255 | | | -- | |
-- |  
Total property acquisitions| 122 | | 78 | | 136 | | 13 | | -- | | -- | | 349 |
| | -- | | -- |  
  
Development3

| 6,221 | | 863 | | 21 | | 649 | | 719 | | 35 | | 8,508 | | | 2,429 | | 34 |  
  
Total Costs Incurred4

| $| 6,733 | | $| 1,125 | | $| 420 | | $| 726 | | $| 751 | | $| 37 | | $|
9,792 | | | $| 2,429 | | $| 34 |  
Year Ended December 31, 2021| | | | | | | | | |  
Exploration| | | | | | | | | |  
Wells| $| 184 | | $| 31 | | $| 5 | | $| 36 | | $| -- | | $| -- | | $| 256 | |
| $| -- | | $| -- |  
Geological and geophysical| 67 | | 58 | | 40 | | -- | | 22 | | -- | | 187 | |
| -- | | -- |  
Other| 80 | | 80 | | 39 | | 14 | | 25 | | 1 | | 239 | | | -- | | -- |  
Total exploration| 331 | | 169 | | 84 | | 50 | | 47 | | 1 | | 682 | | | -- | |
-- |  
  
Property acquisitions2

| | | | | | | | | |  
Proved - Other| 98 | | -- | | 15 | | 53 | | -- | | -- | | 166 | | | -- | | --
|  
Unproved - Other| 13 | | 16 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 29 | | | -- | | --
|  
Total property acquisitions| 111 | | 16 | | 15 | | 53 | | -- | | -- | | 195 |
| | -- | | -- |  
  
Development3

| 4,360 | | 640 | | 383 | | 545 | | 526 | | 44 | | 6,498 | | | 2,442 | | 27 |  
  
Total Costs Incurred4

| $| 4,802 | | $| 825 | | $| 482 | | $| 648 | | $| 573 | | $| 45 | | $| 7,375
| | | $| 2,442 | | $| 27 |  
Year Ended December 31, 2020| | | | | | | | | |  
Exploration| | | | | | | | | |  
Wells| $| 190 | | $| 181 | | $| 1 | | $| 8 | | $| 1 | | $| -- | | $| 381 | | |
$| -- | | $| -- |  
Geological and geophysical| 83 | | 29 | | 58 | | 3 | | 12 | | -- | | 185 | | |
-- | | -- |  
Other| 125 | | 77 | | 42 | | 22 | | 39 | | 2 | | 307 | | | -- | | -- |  
Total exploration| 398 | | 287 | | 101 | | 33 | | 52 | | 2 | | 873 | | | -- |
| -- |  
  
Property acquisitions2

| | | | | | | | | |  
Proved - Noble| 3,463 | | -- | | 438 | | 7,945 | | -- | | -- | | 11,846 | | |
-- | | -- |  
Proved - Other| 23 | | -- | | 2 | | 56 | | -- | | -- | | 81 | | | -- | | -- |  
Unproved - Noble| 2,845 | | 2 | | 113 | | 129 | | -- | | -- | | 3,089 | | | --
| | -- |  
Unproved - Other| 35 | | -- | | 10 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 45 | | | -- | | --
|  
Total property acquisitions| 6,366 | | 2 | | 563 | | 8,130 | | -- | | -- | |
15,061 | | | -- | | -- |  
  
Development3

| 4,622 | | 740 | | 386 | | 1,034 | | 753 | | 37 | | 7,572 | | | 2,998 | | 81
|  
  
Total Costs Incurred4

| $| 11,386 | | $| 1,029 | | $| 1,050 | | $| 9,197 | | $| 805 | | $| 39 | | $|
23,506 | | | $| 2,998 | | $| 81 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1|

Includes costs incurred whether capitalized or expensed. Excludes general
support equipment expenditures. Includes capitalized amounts related to asset
retirement obligations. See Note 25 Asset Retirement Obligations.  
  
2| Includes wells, equipment and facilities associated with proved reserves.
Does not include properties acquired in nonmonetary transactions.  
3|

Includes $186, $298 and $897 of costs incurred on major capital projects prior
to assignment of proved reserves for consolidated companies in 2022, 2021, and
2020, respectively.  
  
4| Reconciliation of consolidated companies total cost incurred to Upstream
Capex - $ billions:  
| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020|  
| Total cost incurred by Consolidated Companies| $| 9.8 | | | $| 7.4 | | | $|
23.5 | |  
|  Noble acquisition| -- | | | -- | | | (14.9)| |  
|  Expensed exploration costs | (0.5)| | | (0.4)| | | (0.5)| | (Geological and
geophysical and other exploration costs)  
|  Non-oil and gas activities| 0.6 | | | 0.2 | | | -- | | (Primarily LNG and
transportation activities)  
|  ARO reduction/(build)| (0.3)| | | (0.4)| | | (0.8)| |  
| Upstream Capex| $| 9.6 | | | $| 6.8 | | | $| 7.5 | |

Reference page 46 Upstream Capex  
  
99

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

proved reserves, and changes in estimated discounted future net cash flows.
The amounts for consolidated companies are organized by geographic areas
including the United States, Other Americas, Africa, Asia, Australia/Oceania
and Europe. Amounts for affiliated companies include Chevron's equity
interests in Tengizchevroil (TCO) in the Republic of Kazakhstan and in other
affiliates, principally in Venezuela and Angola. Refer to Note 15 Investments
and Advances for a discussion of the company's major equity affiliates.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table II - Capitalized Costs Related to Oil and Gas Producing Activities| | |  
| Consolidated Companies| | Affiliated Companies  
| | Other| | | | | | | |  
Millions of dollars| U.S.| Americas| Africa| Asia| Australia| Europe| Total| |
TCO| Other  
At December 31, 2022| | | | | | | | | |  
Unproved properties| $| 2,541 | | $| 2,176 | | $| 265 | | $| 970 | | $| 1,987
| | $| -- | | $| 7,939 | | | $| 108 | | $| -- |  
  
Proved properties and  
related producing assets

| 83,525 | | 22,867 | | 46,950 | | 31,179 | | 22,926 | | 2,186 | | 209,633 | |
| 15,793 | | 1,552 |  
Support equipment| 2,146 | | 194 | | 1,543 | | 696 | | 19,107 | | -- | |
23,686 | | | 646 | | -- |  
Deferred exploratory wells| 43 | | 56 | | 116 | | 40 | | 1,119 | | 74 | |
1,448 | | | -- | | -- |  
Other uncompleted projects| 8,213 | | 610 | | 1,095 | | 914 | | 1,869 | | 30 |
| 12,731 | | | 20,590 | | 54 |  
Gross Capitalized Costs| 96,468 | | 25,903 | | 49,969 | | 33,799 | | 47,008 |
| 2,290 | | 255,437 | | | 37,137 | | 1,606 |  
Unproved properties valuation| 178 | | 1,589 | | 146 | | 969 | | 110 | | -- |
| 2,992 | | | 74 | | -- |  
  
Proved producing properties - Depreciation and depletion

| 58,253 | | 12,974 | | 38,543 | | 19,051 | | 10,689 | | 720 | | 140,230 | | |
9,441 | | 654 |  
Support equipment depreciation| 1,302 | | 155 | | 1,166 | | 500 | | 4,644 | |
-- | | 7,767 | | | 424 | | -- |  
Accumulated provisions| 59,733 | | 14,718 | | 39,855 | | 20,520 | | 15,443 | |
720 | | 150,989 | | | 9,939 | | 654 |  
Net Capitalized Costs| $| 36,735 | | $| 11,185 | | $| 10,114 | | $| 13,279 | |
$| 31,565 | | $| 1,570 | | $| 104,448 | | | $| 27,198 | | $| 952 |  
At December 31, 2021| | | | | | | | | |  
Unproved properties| $| 3,302 | | $| 2,382 | | $| 191 | | $| 982 | | $| 1,987
| | $| -- | | $| 8,844 | | | $| 108 | | $| -- |  
  
Proved properties and  
related producing assets

| 80,821 | | 22,031 | | 47,030 | | 46,379 | | 22,235 | | 2,156 | | 220,652 | |
| 14,635 | | 1,558 |  
Support equipment| 2,134 | | 198 | | 1,096 | | 906 | | 18,918 | | -- | |
23,252 | | | 582 | | -- |  
Deferred exploratory wells| 328 | | 121 | | 196 | | 246 | | 1,144 | | 74 | |
2,109 | | | -- | | -- |  
Other uncompleted projects| 6,581 | | 431 | | 1,096 | | 903 | | 1,586 | | 24 |
| 10,621 | | | 19,382 | | 31 |  
Gross Capitalized Costs| 93,166 | | 25,163 | | 49,609 | | 49,416 | | 45,870 |
| 2,254 | | 265,478 | | | 34,707 | | 1,589 |  
Unproved properties valuation| 289 | | 1,536 | | 131 | | 855 | | 110 | | -- |
| 2,921 | | | 70 | | -- |  
  
Proved producing properties - Depreciation and depletion

| 55,064 | | 11,745 | | 37,657 | | 33,300 | | 8,920 | | 602 | | 147,288 | | |
8,461 | | 514 |  
Support equipment depreciation| 1,681 | | 155 | | 778 | | 623 | | 3,724 | | --
| | 6,961 | | | 362 | | -- |  
Accumulated provisions| 57,034 | | 13,436 | | 38,566 | | 34,778 | | 12,754 | |
602 | | 157,170 | | | 8,893 | | 514 |  
Net Capitalized Costs| $| 36,132 | | $| 11,727 | | $| 11,043 | | $| 14,638 | |
$| 33,116 | | $| 1,652 | | $| 108,308 | | | $| 25,814 | | $| 1,075 |  
At December 31, 2020| | | | | | | | | |  
Unproved properties| $| 3,519 | | $| 2,438 | | $| 188 | | $| 984 | | $| 1,987
| | $| -- | | $| 9,116 | | | $| 108 | | $| -- |  
  
Proved properties and  
related producing assets

| 81,573 | | 24,108 | | 46,637 | | 58,086 | | 22,321 | | 2,117 | | 234,842 | |
| 11,326 | | 1,548 |  
Support equipment| 1,882 | | 197 | | 1,087 | | 2,042 | | 18,898 | | -- | |
24,106 | | | 2,023 | | -- |  
Deferred exploratory wells| 411 | | 142 | | 202 | | 505 | | 1,144 | | 108 | |
2,512 | | | -- | | -- |  
Other uncompleted projects| 5,549 | | 582 | | 1,030 | | 803 | | 1,157 | | 20 |
| 9,141 | | | 18,806 | | 23 |  
Gross Capitalized Costs| 92,934 | | 27,467 | | 49,144 | | 62,420 | | 45,507 |
| 2,245 | | 279,717 | | | 32,263 | | 1,571 |  
Unproved properties valuation| 179 | | 1,471 | | 126 | | 856 | | 110 | | -- |
| 2,742 | | | 67 | | -- |  
  
Proved producing properties - Depreciation and depletion

| 55,839 | | 13,141 | | 35,899 | | 42,354 | | 7,541 | | 498 | | 155,272 | | |
6,746 | | 493 |  
Support equipment depreciation| 1,002 | | 159 | | 742 | | 1,644 | | 2,965 | |
-- | | 6,512 | | | 1,169 | | -- |  
Accumulated provisions| 57,020 | | 14,771 | | 36,767 | | 44,854 | | 10,616 | |
498 | | 164,526 | | | 7,982 | | 493 |  
Net Capitalized Costs| $| 35,914 | | $| 12,696 | | $| 12,377 | | $| 17,566 | |
$| 34,891 | | $| 1,747 | | $| 115,191 | | | $| 24,281 | | $| 1,078 |  
  
  

100

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

Table III - Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities1

The company's results of operations from oil and gas producing activities for
the years 2022, 2021 and 2020 are shown in the following table. Net income
(loss) from exploration and production activities as reported on page 76
reflects income taxes computed on an effective rate basis.

Income taxes in Table III are based on statutory tax rates, reflecting
allowable deductions and tax credits. Interest income and expense are excluded
from the results reported in Table III and from the upstream net income
amounts on page 76.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Consolidated Companies| | Affiliated Companies  
| | Other| | | | | | | |  
Millions of dollars| U.S.| Americas| Africa| Asia| Australia| Europe| Total| |
TCO| Other  
Year Ended December 31, 2022| | | | | | | | | |  
Revenues from net production| | | | | | | | | |  
Sales| $| 9,656 | | $| 1,172 | | $| 2,192 | | $| 3,963 | | $| 7,302 | | $| 564
| | $| 24,849 | | | $| 8,304 | | $| 2,080 |  
Transfers| 18,494 | | 3,801 | | 6,829 | | 2,477 | | 7,535 | | -- | | 39,136 |
| | -- | | -- |  
Total| 28,150 | | 4,973 | | 9,021 | | 6,440 | | 14,837 | | 564 | | 63,985 | |
| 8,304 | | 2,080 |  
Production expenses excluding taxes| (4,752)| | (1,071)| | (1,515)| | (1,316)|
| (614)| | (60)| | (9,328)| | | (485)| | (47)|  
Taxes other than on income| (1,286)| | (85)| | (170)| | (52)| | (352)| | (4)|
| (1,949)| | | (933)| | -- |  
Proved producing properties:| | | | | | | | | |  
Depreciation and depletion| (4,612)| | (1,223)| | (1,943)| | (1,765)| |
(2,520)| | (117)| | (12,180)| | | (964)| | (164)|  
  
Accretion expense2

| (167)| | (22)| | (147)| | (87)| | (77)| | (11)| | (511)| | | (6)| | (3)|  
Exploration expenses| (402)| | (169)| | (243)| | (92)| | (52)| | (2)| | (960)|
| | -- | | -- |  
Unproved properties valuation| (38)| | (250)| | (15)| | (124)| | -- | | -- | |
(427)| | | -- | | -- |  
  
Other income (expense)3

| 92 | | 21 | | 300 | | 180 | | 51 | | 105 | | 749 | | | 195 | | (27)|  
Results before income taxes| 16,985 | | 2,174 | | 5,288 | | 3,184 | | 11,273 |
| 475 | | 39,379 | | | 6,111 | | 1,839 |  
Income tax (expense) benefit| (3,736)| | (670)| | (3,114)| | (1,742)| |
(3,185)| | (193)| | (12,640)| | | (1,835)| | 12 |  
Results of Producing Operations| $| 13,249 | | $| 1,504 | | $| 2,174 | | $|
1,442 | | $| 8,088 | | $| 282 | | $| 26,739 | | | $| 4,276 | | $| 1,851 |  
Year Ended December 31, 2021| | | | | | | | | |  
Revenues from net production| | | | | | | | | |  
Sales| $| 6,708 | | $| 888 | | $| 1,283 | | $| 5,127 | | $| 3,725 | | $| 371 |
| $| 18,102 | | | $| 5,564 | | $| 868 |  
Transfers| 12,653 | | 3,029 | | 5,232 | | 3,019 | | 3,858 | | -- | | 27,791 |
| | -- | | -- |  
Total| 19,361 | | 3,917 | | 6,515 | | 8,146 | | 7,583 | | 371 | | 45,893 | | |
5,564 | | 868 |  
Production expenses excluding taxes| (4,325)| | (974)| | (1,414)| | (2,156)| |
(548)| | (67)| | (9,484)| | | (487)| | (20)|  
Taxes other than on income| (928)| | (73)| | (88)| | (15)| | (260)| | (4)| |
(1,368)| | | (359)| | -- |  
Proved producing properties:| | | | | | | | | |  
Depreciation and depletion| (5,184)| | (1,470)| | (1,797)| | (3,324)| |
(2,409)| | (105)| | (14,289)| | | (947)| | (215)|  
  
Accretion expense2

| (197)| | (22)| | (144)| | (113)| | (75)| | (13)| | (564)| | | (7)| | (3)|  
Exploration expenses| (221)| | (132)| | (83)| | (20)| | (47)| | (35)| | (538)|
| | -- | | -- |  
Unproved properties valuation| (43)| | (95)| | (5)| | -- | | -- | | -- | |
(143)| | | -- | | -- |  
  
Other income (expense)3

| 990 | | (33)| | (72)| | (124)| | 26 | | 2 | | 789 | | | 98 | | (332)|  
Results before income taxes| 9,453 | | 1,118 | | 2,912 | | 2,394 | | 4,270 | |
149 | | 20,296 | | | 3,862 | | 298 |  
Income tax (expense) benefit| (2,108)| | (318)| | (1,239)| | (1,326)| |
(1,314)| | (38)| | (6,343)| | | (1,161)| | 29 |  
Results of Producing Operations| $| 7,345 | | $| 800 | | $| 1,673 | | $| 1,068
| | $| 2,956 | | $| 111 | | $| 13,953 | | | $| 2,701 | | $| 327 |  
  
1The value of owned production consumed in operations as fuel has been
eliminated from revenues and production expenses, and the related volumes have
been deducted from net production in calculating the unit average sales price
and production cost. This has no effect on the results of producing
operations.

2Represents accretion of ARO liability. Refer to Note 25 Asset Retirement
Obligations.

3Includes foreign currency gains and losses, gains and losses on property
dispositions and other miscellaneous income and expenses.

  

101

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

Table III - Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities1,
continued

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Consolidated Companies| | Affiliated Companies  
| | Other| | | | | | | |  
Millions of dollars| U.S.| Americas| Africa| Asia| Australia| Europe| Total| |
TCO| Other  
Year Ended December 31, 2020| | | | | | | | | |  
Revenues from net production| | | | | | | | | |  
Sales| $| 1,665 | | $| 505 | | $| 473 | | $| 5,629 | | $| 3,010 | | $| 149 | |
$| 11,431 | | | $| 3,088 | | $| 288 |  
Transfers| 7,711 | | 1,683 | | 3,378 | | 1,092 | | 1,830 | | -- | | 15,694 | |
| -- | | -- |  
Total| 9,376 | | 2,188 | | 3,851 | | 6,721 | | 4,840 | | 149 | | 27,125 | | |
3,088 | | 288 |  
Production expenses excluding taxes| (3,933)| | (981)| | (1,485)| | (2,408)| |
(589)| | (64)| | (9,460)| | | (419)| | (98)|  
Taxes other than on income| (597)| | (62)| | (77)| | (11)| | (121)| | (2)| |
(870)| | | (190)| | (30)|  
Proved producing properties:| | | | | | | | | |  
Depreciation and depletion| (6,482)| | (1,221)| | (2,323)| | (3,466)| |
(2,192)| | (92)| | (15,776)| | | (879)| | (146)|  
  
Accretion expense2

| (165)| | (22)| | (136)| | (120)| | (62)| | (10)| | (515)| | | (9)| | (6)|  
Exploration expenses| (457)| | (314)| | (431)| | (67)| | (231)| | (15)| |
(1,515)| | | -- | | 1 |  
Unproved properties valuation| (58)| | (215)| | (6)| | (8)| | (1)| | -- | |
(288)| | | -- | | -- |  
  
Other income (expense)3

| 51 | | (8)| | (11)| | 1,053 | | (2)| | (9)| | 1,074 | | | (29)| | (2,103)|  
Results before income taxes| (2,265)| | (635)| | (618)| | 1,694 | | 1,642 | |
(43)| | (225)| | | 1,562 | | (2,094)|  
Income tax (expense) benefit| 558 | | (5)| | 888 | | (353)| | (558)| | 12 | |
542 | | | (471)| | 161 |  
Results of Producing Operations| $| (1,707)| | $| (640)| | $| 270 | | $| 1,341
| | $| 1,084 | | $| (31)| | $| 317 | | | $| 1,091 | | $| (1,933)|  
  
1The value of owned production consumed in operations as fuel has been
eliminated from revenues and production expenses, and the related volumes have
been deducted from net production in calculating the unit average sales price
and production cost. This has no effect on the results of producing
operations.

2Represents accretion of ARO liability. Refer to Note 25 Asset Retirement
Obligations.

3Includes foreign currency gains and losses, gains and losses on property
dispositions and other miscellaneous income and expenses.

Table IV - Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unit
Prices and Costs1

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Consolidated Companies| | Affiliated Companies  
| | Other| | | | | | | |  
| U.S.| Americas| Africa| Asia| Australia| Europe| Total| | TCO| Other  
Year Ended December 31, 2022| | | | | | | | | |  
Average sales prices| | | | | | | | | |  
Crude, per barrel| $| 91.88 | | $| 90.04 | | $| 100.82 | | $| 85.64 | | $|
98.00 | | $| 102.00 | | $| 92.92 | | | $| 85.71 | | $| -- |  
Natural gas liquids, per barrel| 33.76 | | 34.33 | | 35.43 | | -- | | -- | |
-- | | 34.31 | | | 20.83 | | 65.33 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 5.53 | | 5.15 | | 9.00 | | 4.02 | |
15.34 | | 27.00 | | 8.85 | | | 0.95 | | 29.44 |  
  
Average production costs, per barrel2

| 11.10 | | 17.00 | | 14.43 | | 8.49 | | 3.79 | | 12.00 | | 10.16 | | | 3.85 |
| 3.36 |  
Year Ended December 31, 2021| | | | | | | | | |  
Average sales prices| | | | | | | | | |  
Crude, per barrel| $| 65.16 | | $| 62.84 | | $| 72.38 | | $| 63.71 | | $|
71.40 | | $| 69.20 | | $| 66.14 | | | $| 58.31 | | $| -- |  
Natural gas liquids, per barrel| 28.54 | | 26.33 | | 39.40 | | -- | | 30.00 |
| -- | | 29.10 | | | 27.13 | | 66.00 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 3.02 | | 3.39 | | 2.66 | | 4.10 | | 8.22
| | 12.50 | | 5.08 | | | 0.47 | | 9.71 |  
  
Average production costs, per barrel2

| 10.45| 13.91| 12.40| 10.52| 3.65| 13.40| 9.90| | 4.09| 1.25  
Year Ended December 31, 2020| | | | | | | | | |  
  
Average sales prices3

| | | | | | | | | |  
Crude, per barrel| $| 36.28 | | $| 35.80 | | $| 38.89 | | $| 39.77 | | $|
37.82 | | $| 34.20 | | $| 37.41 | | | $| 25.39 | | $| 25.22 |  
Natural gas liquids, per barrel| 9.97 | | 11.79 | | 20.51 | | -- | | 40.97 | |
-- | | 11.11 | | | 10.58 | | 22.52 |  
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet| 0.96 | | 2.20 | | 1.61 | | 4.30 | | 5.42
| | 1.07 | | 3.68 | | | 0.54 | | 0.61 |  
  
Average production costs, per barrel2

| 10.01 | | 14.27 | | 13.19 | | 11.24 | | 4.02 | | 13.23 | | 10.07 | | | 3.17
| | 3.91 |  
  
1The value of owned production consumed in operations as fuel has been
eliminated from revenues and production expenses, and the related volumes have
been deducted from net production in calculating the unit average sales price
and production cost. This has no effect on the results of producing
operations.

2Natural gas converted to oil-equivalent gas (OEG) barrels at a rate of 6 MCF
= 1 OEG barrel.

32020 unit prices have been conformed to current presentation. Crude and NGL
realizations were previously combined and disclosed as liquids.

  

102

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

Table V Proved Reserve Quantity Information*

Summary of Net Oil and Gas Reserves

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Liquids in Millions of Barrels| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Natural Gas in Billions of Cubic Feet| Crude Oil  
Condensate| SyntheticOil| NGL| Natural  
Gas| | Crude Oil  
Condensate| SyntheticOil| NGL| Natural  
Gas| | Crude Oil  
Condensate| SyntheticOil| NGL| Natural  
Gas  
Proved Developed| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| 1,198 | | -- | | 450 | | 3,288 | | | 1,177 | | -- | | 421 | | 3,136 | |
| 1,157 | | -- | | 346 | | 2,503 |  
Other Americas| 174 | | 574 | | 7 | | 305 | | | 181 | | 471 | | 7 | | 259 | |
| 168 | | 597 | | 6 | | 222 |  
Africa| 392 | | -- | | 72 | | 1,734 | | | 428 | | -- | | 77 | | 1,884 | | |
497 | | -- | | 68 | | 1,629 |  
Asia| 235 | | -- | | -- | | 6,578 | | | 270 | | -- | | -- | | 7,007 | | | 358
| | -- | | -- | | 7,864 |  
Australia| 99 | | -- | | 3 | | 7,898 | | | 102 | | -- | | 3 | | 8,057 | | |
115 | | -- | | 4 | | 8,951 |  
Europe| 26 | | -- | | -- | | 9 | | | 24 | | -- | | -- | | 8 | | | 23 | | -- |
| -- | | 8 |  
Total Consolidated| 2,124 | | 574 | | 532 | | 19,812 | | | 2,182 | | 471 | |
508 | | 20,351 | | | 2,318 | | 597 | | 424 | | 21,177 |  
Affiliated Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
TCO| 515 | | -- | | 52 | | 895 | | | 555 | | -- | | 52 | | 1,059 | | | 565 | |
-- | | 53 | | 1,057 |  
Other| 3 | | -- | | 13 | | 349 | | | 3 | | -- | | 13 | | 310 | | | 2 | | -- |
| 12 | | 322 |  
Total Consolidated and Affiliated Companies| 2,642 | | 574 | | 597 | | 21,056
| | | 2,740 | | 471 | | 573 | | 21,720 | | | 2,885 | | 597 | | 489 | | 22,556
|  
Proved Undeveloped| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Consolidated Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| 875 | | -- | | 435 | | 3,543 | | | 887 | | -- | | 391 | | 2,749 | | |
593 | | -- | | 247 | | 1,747 |  
Other Americas| 121 | | -- | | 10 | | 240 | | | 107 | | -- | | 8 | | 196 | | |
92 | | -- | | 2 | | 107 |  
Africa| 62 | | -- | | 25 | | 756 | | | 52 | | -- | | 28 | | 912 | | | 57 | |
-- | | 36 | | 1,208 |  
Asia| 58 | | -- | | -- | | 1,959 | | | 52 | | -- | | -- | | 466 | | | 45 | |
-- | | -- | | 319 |  
Australia| 22 | | -- | | -- | | 2,444 | | | 32 | | -- | | -- | | 3,627 | | |
26 | | -- | | -- | | 2,434 |  
Europe| 32 | | -- | | -- | | 11 | | | 38 | | -- | | -- | | 13 | | | 38 | | --
| | -- | | 14 |  
Total Consolidated| 1,170 | | -- | | 470 | | 8,953 | | | 1,168 | | -- | | 427
| | 7,963 | | | 851 | | -- | | 285 | | 5,829 |  
Affiliated Companies| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
TCO| 611 | | -- | | 21 | | 368 | | | 695 | | -- | | 32 | | 642 | | | 985 | |
-- | | 49 | | 961 |  
Other| -- | | -- | | -- | | 487 | | | 1 | | -- | | 6 | | 583 | | | 1 | | -- |
| 5 | | 576 |  
Total Consolidated and Affiliated Companies| 1,781 | | -- | | 491 | | 9,808 |
| | 1,864 | | -- | | 465 | | 9,188 | | | 1,837 | | -- | | 339 | | 7,366 |  
Total Proved Reserves| 4,423 | | 574 | | 1,088 | | 30,864 | | | 4,604 | | 471
| | 1,038 | | 30,908 | | | 4,722 | | 597 | | 828 | | 29,922 |  
  
* Reserve quantities include natural gas projected to be consumed in operations of 2,737, 2,505 and 2,490 billions of cubic feet and equivalent synthetic oil projected to be consumed in operations of 28, 17 and 21 millions of barrels as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

  

Reserves Governance The company has adopted a comprehensive reserves and
resources classification system modeled after a system developed and approved
by a number of organizations, including the Society of Petroleum Engineers,
the World Petroleum Congress and the American Association of Petroleum
Geologists. The company classifies discovered recoverable hydrocarbons into
six categories based on their status at the time of reporting - three deemed
commercial and three potentially recoverable. Within the commercial
classification are proved reserves and two categories of unproved reserves:
probable and possible. The potentially recoverable categories are also
referred to as contingent resources. For reserves estimates to be classified
as proved, they must meet all SEC and company standards.

Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities that geoscience and
engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be economically
producible in the future from known reservoirs under existing economic
conditions, operating methods and government regulations. Net proved reserves
exclude royalties and interests owned by others and reflect contractual
arrangements and royalty obligations in effect at the time of the estimate.

Proved reserves are classified as either developed or undeveloped. Proved
developed reserves are the quantities expected to be recovered through
existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods, or in which the
cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a
new well. Proved undeveloped reserves are the quantities expected to be
recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a
relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.

Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data,
estimates of reserves are subject to change as additional information becomes
available.

103

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

Proved reserves are estimated by company asset teams composed of earth
scientists and engineers. As part of the internal control process related to
reserves estimation, the company maintains a Reserves Advisory Committee (RAC)
that is chaired by the Manager of Global Reserves, an organization that is
separate from the business units that estimate reserves. The Manager of Global
Reserves has more than 30 years of experience working in the oil and gas
industry and holds both undergraduate and graduate degrees in geoscience. His
experience includes various technical and management roles in providing
reserve and resource estimates in support of major capital and exploration
projects, and more than 10 years of overseeing oil and gas reserves processes.
He has been named a Distinguished Lecturer by the American Association of
Petroleum Geologists and is an active member of the American Association of
Petroleum Geologists, the SEPM Society of Sedimentary Geologists and the
Society of Petroleum Engineers.

All RAC members are degreed professionals, each with more than 10 years of
experience in various aspects of reserves estimation relating to reservoir
engineering, petroleum engineering, earth science or finance. The members are
knowledgeable in SEC guidelines for proved reserves classification and receive
annual training on the preparation of reserves estimates.

The RAC has the following primary responsibilities: establish the policies and
processes used within the business units to estimate reserves; provide
independent reviews and oversight of the business units' recommended reserves
estimates and changes; confirm that proved reserves are recognized in
accordance with SEC guidelines; determine that reserve quantities are
calculated using consistent and appropriate standards, procedures and
technology; and maintain the Chevron Corporation Reserves Manual, which
provides standardized procedures used corporatewide for classifying and
reporting hydrocarbon reserves.

During the year, the RAC is represented in meetings with each of the company's
business units to review and discuss reserve changes recommended by the
various asset teams. Major changes are also reviewed with the company's senior
leadership team including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer. The company's annual reserve activity is also reviewed with the Board
of Directors. If major changes to reserves were to occur between the annual
reviews, those matters would also be discussed with the Board.

RAC subteams also conduct in-depth reviews during the year of many of the
fields that have large proved reserves quantities. These reviews include an
examination of the proved reserve records and documentation of their
compliance with the Chevron Corporation Reserves Manual.

Technologies Used in Establishing Proved Reserves Additions In 2022, additions
to Chevron's proved reserves were based on a wide range of geologic and
engineering technologies. Information generated from wells, such as well logs,
wire line sampling, production and pressure testing, fluid analysis, and core
analysis, was integrated with seismic data, regional geologic studies, and
information from analogous reservoirs to provide "reasonably certain" proved
reserves estimates. Both proprietary and commercially available analytic
tools, including reservoir simulation, geologic modeling and seismic
processing, have been used in the interpretation of the subsurface data. These
technologies have been utilized extensively by the company in the past, and
the company believes that they provide a high degree of confidence in
establishing reliable and consistent reserves estimates.

Proved Undeveloped Reserves

Noteworthy changes in proved undeveloped reserves are shown in the table below
and discussed on the following page.

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (Millions of BOE)

| 2022  
Quantity at January 1| 3,860 |  
Revisions| 6 |  
Improved recovery| 15 |  
Extension and discoveries| 632 |  
Purchases| 61 |  
Sales| (10)|  
Transfers to proved developed| (657)|  
Quantity at December 31| 3,907 |  
  
In 2022, revisions include an increase of 257 million BOE in Israel, due to
new wells and performance revisions in the Leviathan and Tamar fields. This
increase was largely offset by decreases of 145 million BOE from the United
States primarily from portfolio optimizations in the Midland and Delaware
basins, 69 million BOE in Kazakhstan primarily at TCO as higher prices reduced
entitlement (Entitlement effects) and changes in operating assumptions reduced
estimated

104

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

undeveloped reserves, and 31 million BOE in Nigeria due to lower expected
offtake of natural gas relative to contracted volumes.

In 2022, extensions and discoveries of 578 million BOE in the United States
were primarily due to the increase of activity and planned development of new
locations in shale and tight assets in the Midland, Delaware and DJ basins. In
Other Americas, 34 million BOE of extensions and discoveries were from shale
and tight assets in Argentina and Canada.

The difference in 2022 extensions and discoveries of 122 million BOE, between
the net quantities of proved reserves of 754 million BOE as reflected on pages
107 to 109 and net quantities of proved undeveloped reserves of 632 million
BOE, is primarily due to proved extensions and discoveries that were not
recognized as proved undeveloped reserves in the prior year and were
recognized directly as proved developed reserves in 2022.

Purchases of 61 million BOE in 2022 are primarily from the acquisition of
various properties in the Midland and Delaware basins in the United States.

Transfers to proved developed reserves in 2022 include 309 million BOE in the
United States, primarily from the Midland, Delaware and DJ basin developments,
207 million BOE in Australia, and 141 million BOE in Kazakhstan, Angola,
Canada, Argentina and other international locations. These transfers are the
consequence of development expenditures on completing wells and facilities.

During 2022, investments totaling approximately $7.5 billion in oil and gas
producing activities and about $0.1 billion in non-oil and gas producing
activities were expended to advance the development of proved undeveloped
reserves. The United States accounted for about $3.7 billion primarily related
to various development activities in the Midland and Delaware basins and the
Gulf of Mexico. In Asia, expenditures during the year totaled approximately
$2.6 billion, primarily related to development projects for TCO in Kazakhstan.
An additional $0.2 billion were spent on development activities in Australia.
In Africa, about $0.5 billion was expended on various offshore development and
natural gas projects in Nigeria, Angola and Republic of Congo. Development
activities in Canada and other international locations were primarily
responsible for about $0.5 billion of expenditures.

Reserves that remain proved undeveloped for five or more years are a result of
several factors that affect optimal project development and execution. These
factors may include the complex nature of the development project in adverse
and remote locations, physical limitations of infrastructure or plant
capacities that dictate project timing, compression projects that are pending
reservoir pressure declines, and contractual limitations that dictate
production levels.

At year-end 2022, the company held approximately 1.3 billion BOE of proved
undeveloped reserves that have remained undeveloped for five years or more.
The majority of these reserves are in locations where the company has a proven
track record of developing major projects. In Australia, approximately 235
million BOE remain undeveloped for five years or more related to the Gorgon
and Wheatstone Projects. Further field development to convert the remaining
proved undeveloped reserves is scheduled to occur in line with operating
constraints, reservoir depletion and infrastructure optimization. In Africa,
approximately 167 million BOE have remained undeveloped for five years or
more, primarily due to facility constraints at various fields and
infrastructure associated with the Escravos gas projects in Nigeria.
Affiliates account for about 776 million BOE of proved undeveloped reserves
with about 726 million BOE that have remained undeveloped for five years or
more. Approximately 647 million BOE are related to TCO in Kazakhstan and about
79 million BOE are related to Angola LNG. At TCO and Angola LNG, further field
development to convert the remaining proved undeveloped reserves is scheduled
to occur in line with reservoir depletion and facility constraints.

Annually, the company assesses whether any changes have occurred in facts or
circumstances, such as changes to development plans, regulations, or
government policies, that would warrant a revision to reserve estimates. In
2022, improvements in commodity prices positively impacted the economic limits
of oil and gas properties, resulting in proved reserve increases, and
negatively impacted proved reserves due to entitlement effects. The year-end
reserves quantities have been updated for these circumstances and significant
changes have been discussed in the appropriate reserves sections. Over the
past three years, the ratio of proved undeveloped reserves to total proved
reserves has ranged between 31 percent and 35 percent.

Proved Reserve Quantities For the three years ending December 31, 2022, the
pattern of net reserve changes shown in the following tables are not
necessarily indicative of future trends. Apart from acquisitions, the
company's ability to add proved reserves can be affected by events and
circumstances that are outside the company's control, such as delays in
government permitting, partner approvals of development plans, changes in oil
and gas prices, OPEC constraints, geopolitical uncertainties, and civil
unrest.

105

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

At December 31, 2022, proved reserves for the company were 11.2 billion BOE.
The company's estimated net proved reserves of liquids, including crude oil,
condensate and synthetic oil for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022, are shown in
the table on page 107. The company's estimated net proved reserves of natural
gas liquids are shown on page 108, and the company's estimated net proved
reserves of natural gas are shown on page 109.

Noteworthy changes in crude oil, condensate and synthetic oil proved reserves
for 2020 through 2022 are discussed below and shown in the table on the
following page:

Revisions In 2020, capital reductions and commodity price effects in the
Midland and Delaware basins and Anchor in the Gulf of Mexico were primarily
responsible for the 279 million barrels decrease in the United States.
Reserves in Venezuela affiliates decreased by 149 million barrels, primarily
due to impairments and accounting methodology change. Entitlement effects and
performance revisions in TCO were primarily responsible for the 180 million
barrels increase. Entitlement effects primarily contributed to an increase of
77 million barrels of synthetic oil at the Athabasca Oil Sands in Canada and
74 million barrels at multiple locations in Asia.

In 2021, the 206 million barrels increase in United States was primarily in
the Gulf of Mexico and the Midland and Delaware basins. The higher commodity
price environment led to the increase of 126 million barrels in the Gulf of
Mexico primarily from Anchor and a 68 million barrels increase in the Midland
and Delaware basins due to higher planned development activity. In TCO,
entitlement effects and technical changes in field operating assumptions,
reservoir model, and project schedule were primarily responsible for the 208
million barrels decrease in Kazakhstan. Entitlement effects primarily
contributed to a decrease of 106 million barrels of synthetic oil at the
Athabasca Oil Sands project in Canada. In the Other Americas, performance
revisions and price effects, mainly in Canada and Argentina, were primarily
responsible for the 41 million barrels increase.

In 2022, entitlement effects primarily contributed to a decrease of 49 million
barrels of synthetic oil at the Athabasca Oil Sands project in Canada. In TCO,
entitlement effects and changes in operating assumptions were primarily
responsible for the 35 million barrels decrease in Kazakhstan.

Extensions and Discoveries In 2020, extensions and discoveries in the Midland
and Delaware basins were primarily responsible for the 105 million barrels
increase in the United States.

In 2021, extensions and discoveries in the Midland and Delaware basins, and at
the Whale Project in the Gulf of Mexico, were primarily responsible for the
349 million barrels increase in the United States.

In 2022, extensions and discoveries in the Midland, Delaware and DJ basins,
and approval of the Ballymore Project in the Gulf of Mexico, were primarily
responsible for the 264 million barrels increase in the United States. In
Other Americas, the 32 million barrels of extensions and discoveries were from
Argentina and Canada.

Purchases In 2020, the acquisition of Noble assets contributed 227 million
barrels in the DJ basin, Midland and Delaware basins in the United States.

In 2022, the company exercised its option to acquire additional land acreage
in the Athabasca Oil Sands project in Canada contributing 168 million barrels
in synthetic oil. The extension of deepwater licenses in Nigeria and the
Republic of Congo contributed 36 million barrels in Africa.

Sales In 2020, sales of 99 million barrels in Asia were in Azerbaijan.

In 2021, sales of 32 million barrels in the United States were in the Midland
and Delaware basins.

  

106

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

Net Proved Reserves of Crude Oil, Condensate and Synthetic Oil

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Consolidated Companies| | Affiliated Companies| | Total  
Consolidated  
| | Other| | | | | Synthetic| | | | Synthetic| | | and Affiliated  
Millions of barrels| U.S.|

Americas1

| Africa| Asia| Australia| Europe|

Oil 2,5

| Total| | TCO| Oil|

Other3

| | Companies  
Reserves at January 1, 2020| 1,928 | | 320 | | 613 | | 513 | | 166 | | 69 | |
540 | | 4,149 | | | 1,473 | | -- | | 159 | | | 5,781 |  
Changes attributable to:| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Revisions| (279)| | (25)| | 11 | | 74 | | (11)| | (4)| | 77 | | (157)| | | 180
| | -- | | (149)| | | (126)|  
Improved recovery| 1 | | 1 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 2 | | | -- |
| -- | | -- | | | 2 |  
Extensions and discoveries| 105 | | 3 | | 1 | | -- | | 1 | | -- | | -- | | 110
| | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | 110 |  
Purchases| 227 | | -- | | 21 | | 10 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 258 | | | -- | |
-- | | -- | | | 258 |  
Sales| (11)| | -- | | -- | | (99)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | (110)| | | -- | | --
| | -- | | | (110)|  
Production| (221)| | (39)| | (92)| | (95)| | (15)| | (4)| | (20)| | (486)| | |
(103)| | -- | | (7)| | | (596)|  
  
Reserves at December 31, 2020 4, 5

| 1,750 | | 260 | | 554 | | 403 | | 141 | | 61 | | 597 | | 3,766 | | | 1,550 |
| -- | | 3 | | | 5,319 |  
Changes attributable to:| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Revisions| 206 | | 41 | | 10 | | (8)| | 8 | | 6 | | (106)| | 157 | | | (208)|
| -- | | 2 | | | (49)|  
Improved recovery| -- | | 9 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 9 | | | --
| | -- | | -- | | | 9 |  
Extensions and discoveries| 349 | | 16 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | |
365 | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | 365 |  
Purchases| 26 | | -- | | -- | | 2 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 28 | | | -- | | --
| | -- | | | 28 |  
Sales| (32)| | -- | | -- | | (1)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | (33)| | | -- | | -- |
| -- | | | (33)|  
Production| (235)| | (38)| | (84)| | (74)| | (15)| | (5)| | (20)| | (471)| | |
(92)| | -- | | (1)| | | (564)|  
  
Reserves at December 31, 2021 4, 5

| 2,064 | | 288 | | 480 | | 322 | | 134 | | 62 | | 471 | | 3,821 | | | 1,250 |
| -- | | 4 | | | 5,075 |  
Changes attributable to:| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Revisions| (26)| | (9)| | 4 | | 8 | | 2 | | 1 | | (49)| | (69)| | | (35)| | --
| | -- | | | (104)|  
Improved recovery| 2 | | 15 | | 4 | | 5 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 26 | | | -- |
| -- | | -- | | | 26 |  
Extensions and discoveries| 264 | | 32 | | 6 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | |
302 | | | 10 | | -- | | -- | | | 312 |  
Purchases| 22 | | 5 | | 36 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 168 | | 231 | | | -- | |
-- | | -- | | | 231 |  
Sales| (16)| | -- | | (3)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | (19)| | | -- | | -- |
| -- | | | (19)|  
Production| (237)| | (36)| | (73)| | (42)| | (15)| | (5)| | (16)| | (424)| | |
(99)| | -- | | (1)| | | (524)|  
  
Reserves at December 31, 2022 4, 5

| 2,073 | | 295 | | 454 | | 293 | | 121 | | 58 | | 574 | | 3,868 | | | 1,126 |
| -- | | 3 | | | 4,997 |  
  
1Ending reserve balances in North America were 185, 183 and 166 and in South
America were 110, 105 and 94 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

2Reserves associated with Canada.

3Reserves associated with Africa.

4Included are year-end reserve quantities related to production-sharing
contracts (PSC) (refer to page E-8 for the definition of a PSC). PSC-related
reserve quantities are 6 percent, 7 percent and 9 percent for consolidated
companies for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

5Reserve quantities include synthetic oil projected to be consumed in
operations of 28, 17 and 21 millions of barrels as of December 31, 2022, 2021
and 2020, respectively.

  

Noteworthy changes in natural gas liquids proved reserves for 2020 through
2022 are discussed below and shown in the table on the following page:

Revisions In 2020, capital reductions and commodity price effects in various
fields in Midland and Delaware basins were primarily responsible for the 71
million barrels decrease in the United States.

In 2021, higher commodity prices resulting in the increase of planned
development activity in the Midland and Delaware basins were primarily
responsible for the 107 million barrels increase in the United States.

Extensions and Discoveries In 2020, extensions and discoveries in various
fields in Midland and Delaware basins were primarily responsible for the 60
million barrels increase in the United States.

In 2021, extensions and discoveries in the Midland and Delaware basins were
primarily responsible for the 190 million barrels increase in the United
States.

In 2022, extensions and discoveries in the Midland and Delaware basins were
primarily responsible for the 163 million barrels increase in the United
States.

Purchases In 2020, the acquisition of Noble assets contributed 198 million
barrels primarily in the DJ basin, Midland and Delaware basins and Eagle Ford
shale in the United States.

Sales In 2022, sales of 35 million barrels in the United States were primarily
from the divestment of the Eagle Ford shale assets and some properties in the
Midland and Delaware basins.

107

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

Net Proved Reserves of Natural Gas Liquids

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Consolidated Companies| | Affiliated Companies| | Total  
Consolidated  
| | Other| | | | | | | | | | and Affiliated  
Millions of barrels| U.S.|

Americas1

| Africa| Asia| Australia| Europe| Total| | TCO|

Other2

| | Companies  
Reserves at January 1, 2020| 502 | | 16 | | 100 | | -- | | 4 | | -- | | 622 |
| | 103 | | 15 | | | 740 |  
Changes attributable to:| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Revisions| (71)| | (7)| | (3)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | (81)| | | 8 | | 5 | | |
(68)|  
Improved recovery| -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | |
-- | | | -- |  
Extensions and discoveries| 60 | | 1 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 61 | | |
-- | | -- | | | 61 |  
Purchases| 198 | | -- | | 12 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 210 | | | -- | | -- | |
| 210 |  
Sales| (27)| | -- | | | -- | | -- | | -- | | (27)| | | -- | | -- | | | (27)|  
Production| (69)| | (2)| | (5)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | (76)| | | (9)| | (3)| |
| (88)|  
  
Reserves at December 31, 20203

| 593 | | 8 | | 104 | | -- | | 4 | | -- | | 709 | | | 102 | | 17 | | | 828 |  
Changes attributable to:| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Revisions| 107 | | 5 | | 8 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 120 | | | (10)| | 4 | | |
114 |  
Improved recovery| -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | |
-- | | | -- |  
Extensions and discoveries| 190 | | 4 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 194 | |
| -- | | -- | | | 194 |  
Purchases| 8 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 8 | | | -- | | -- | | | 8
|  
Sales| (8)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | (8)| | | -- | | -- | | | (8)|  
Production| (78)| | (2)| | (6)| | -- | | (1)| | -- | | (87)| | | (8)| | (3)| |
| (98)|  
  
Reserves at December 31, 20213

| 812 | | 15 | | 106 | | -- | | 3 | | -- | | 936 | | | 84 | | 18 | | | 1,038 |  
Changes attributable to:| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Revisions| 18 | | -- | | (3)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | 15 | | | (5)| | (3)| | |
7 |  
Improved recovery| -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | |
-- | | | -- |  
Extensions and discoveries| 163 | | 2 | | 1 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 166 | | |
-- | | -- | | | 166 |  
Purchases| 14 | | 2 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 16 | | | -- | | -- | | |
16 |  
Sales| (35)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | (35)| | | -- | | -- | | |
(35)|  
Production| (87)| | (2)| | (7)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | (96)| | | (6)| | (2)| |
| (104)|  
  
Reserves at December 31, 20223

| 885 | | 17 | | 97 | | -- | | 3 | | -- | | 1,002 | | | 73 | | 13 | | | 1,088
|  
  
1Reserves associated with North America.

2Reserves associated with Africa.

3Year-end reserve quantities related to PSC are not material for 2022, 2021
and 2020, respectively.

Noteworthy changes in natural gas proved reserves for 2020 through 2022 are
discussed below and shown in the table on the following page:

Revisions In 2020, the demotion of Jansz Io compression project reserves and
lower field performance, partially offset by positive revisions at Gorgon,
were mainly responsible for the net 2.5 TCF decrease in Australia. Capital
reductions and commodity price effects in various fields of the Midland and
Delaware basins were mainly responsible for the 509 BCF decrease in the United
States. In Africa, a 229 BCF decrease was primarily due to reduced demand and
development plan changes at Meren in Nigeria.

In 2021, the approval of the Jansz Io Compression project was mainly
responsible for the 1.2 TCF increase in Australia. Higher commodity prices,
resulting in the increase of planned development activity in the Midland and
Delaware basins, were mainly responsible for the 829 BCF increase in the
United States. In TCO, entitlement effects and technical changes in field
operating assumptions, reservoir model, and project schedule were primarily
responsible for the 179 BCF decrease.

In 2022, the performance of the Leviathan and Tamar fields in Israel and the
Bibiyana and Jalalabad fields in Bangladesh were mainly responsible for the
1.8 TCF increase in Asia. In Australia, the 377 BCF decrease was mainly due to
updated reservoir characterization of the Wheatstone field. In TCO,
entitlement effects and changes in operating assumptions were primarily
responsible for the 285 BCF decrease.

Extensions and Discoveries In 2020, extensions and discoveries of 385 BCF in
the United States were primarily in the Midland and Delaware basins.

In 2021, extensions and discoveries of 1.4 TCF in the United States were
primarily in the Midland and Delaware basins.

In 2022, extensions and discoveries of 1.6 TCF in the United States were
primarily in the Midland and Delaware basins.

108

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

Purchases In 2020, the acquisition of Noble assets contributed 5.4 TCF in
Israel in Asia, 1.5 TCF in the DJ basin, Midland and Delaware basins and Eagle
Ford Shale in the United States and 441 BCF in Equatorial Guinea in Africa.

Sales In 2020, sales of 1.3 TCF were primarily in the Appalachian basin in the
United States and 264 BCF primarily in Azerbaijan in Asia.

In 2022, sales of 243 BCF in the United States were primarily in the Eagle
Ford shale and Midland and Delaware basins.

Net Proved Reserves of Natural Gas

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Consolidated Companies| | Affiliated Companies| | Total  
Consolidated  
| | Other| | | | | | | | | | and Affiliated  
Billions of cubic feet (BCF)| U.S.|

Americas1

| Africa| Asia| Australia| Europe| Total| | TCO|

Other2

| | Companies  
Reserves at January 1, 2020| 4,728 | | 736 | | 2,758 | | 3,681 | | 14,658 | |
26 | | 26,587 | | | 2,004 | | 866 | | | 29,457 |  
Changes attributable to:| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Revisions| (509)| | (178)| | (229)| | 169 | | (2,455)| | (2)| | (3,204)| | |
162 | | 138 | | | (2,904)|  
Improved recovery| -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | |
-- | | | -- |  
Extensions and discoveries| 385 | | 8 | | 2 | | -- | | 58 | | -- | | 453 | | |
-- | | -- | | | 453 |  
Purchases| 1,548 | | -- | | 441 | | 5,350 | | -- | | -- | | 7,339 | | | -- | |
-- | | | 7,339 |  
Sales| (1,314)| | (177)| | -- | | (264)| | -- | | -- | | (1,755)| | | -- | |
-- | | | (1,755)|  
  
Production3

| (588)| | (60)| | (135)| | (753)| | (876)| | (2)| | (2,414)| | | (148)| |
(106)| | | (2,668)|  
  
Reserves at December 31, 2020 4, 5

| 4,250 | | 329 | | 2,837 | | 8,183 | | 11,385 | | 22 | | 27,006 | | | 2,018 |
| 898 | | | 29,922 |  
Changes attributable to:| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Revisions| 829 | | 129 | | 147 | | 119 | | 1,181 | | 1 | | 2,406 | | | (179)|
| 82 | | | 2,309 |  
Improved recovery| -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | | -- | |
-- | | | -- |  
Extensions and discoveries| 1,408 | | 63 | | -- | | -- | | 19 | | -- | | 1,490
| | | -- | | -- | | | 1,490 |  
Purchases| 44 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 44 | | | -- | | -- | | |
44 |  
Sales| (29)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | (13)| | -- | | (42)| | | -- | | -- | | |
(42)|  
  
Production3

| (617)| | (66)| | (188)| | (829)| | (888)| | (2)| | (2,590)| | | (138)| |
(87)| | | (2,815)|  
  
Reserves at December 31, 2021 4, 5

| 5,885 | | 455 | | 2,796 | | 7,473 | | 11,684 | | 21 | | 28,314 | | | 1,701 |
| 893 | | | 30,908 |  
Changes attributable to:| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Revisions| 171 | | 62 | | (118)| | 1,765 | | (377)| | 2 | | 1,505 | | | (285)|
| 3 | | | 1,223 |  
Improved recovery| 1 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 1 | | | -- | | --
| | | 1 |  
Extensions and discoveries| 1,573 | | 64 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 1,637
| | | -- | | 17 | | | 1,654 |  
Purchases| 85 | | 25 | | 30 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 140 | | | -- | | -- | | |
140 |  
Sales| (243)| | -- | | (11)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | (254)| | | -- | | -- | | |
(254)|  
  
Production3

| (641)| | (61)| | (207)| | (701)| | (965)| | (3)| | (2,578)| | | (153)| |
(77)| | | (2,808)|  
  
Reserves at December 31, 2022 4, 5

| 6,831 | | 545 | | 2,490 | | 8,537 | | 10,342 | | 20 | | 28,765 | | | 1,263 |
| 836 | | | 30,864 |  
  
1Ending reserve balances in North America and South America were 407, 347 and
234 and 138, 108 and 95 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

2Reserves associated with Africa.

3Total "as sold" volumes are 2,600, 2,599 and 2,447 for 2022, 2021 and 2020,
respectively.

4Includes reserve quantities related to PSC. PSC-related reserve quantities
are 8 percent, 8 percent and 10 percent for consolidated companies for 2022,
2021 and 2020, respectively.

5Reserve quantities include natural gas projected to be consumed in operations
of 2,737, 2,505 and 2,490 billions of cubic feet as of December 31, 2022, 2021
and 2020, respectively.

  

109

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

  

Table VI - Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Related to
Proved Oil and Gas Reserves

The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is calculated in
accordance with SEC and FASB requirements. This includes using the average of
first-day-of-the-month oil and gas prices for the 12-month period prior to the
end of the reporting period, estimated future development and production costs
assuming the continuation of existing economic conditions, estimated costs for
asset retirement obligations (includes costs to retire existing wells and
facilities in addition to those future wells and facilities necessary to
produce proved undeveloped reserves), and estimated future income taxes based
on appropriate statutory tax rates. Discounted future net cash flows are
calculated using 10 percent mid-period discount factors. Estimates of proved
reserve quantities are imprecise and change over time as new information
becomes available. Probable and possible reserves, which may become proved in
the future, are excluded from the calculations. The valuation requires
assumptions as to the timing and amount of future development and production
costs. The calculations are made as of December 31 each year and do not
represent management's estimate of the company's future cash flows or value of
its oil and gas reserves. In the following table, the caption "Standardized
Measure Net Cash Flows" refers to the standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
  

| Consolidated Companies| | Affiliated Companies| | Total  
Consolidated  
| | Other| | | | | | | | | | and Affiliated  
Millions of dollars| U.S.| Americas| Africa| Asia| Australia| Europe| Total| |
TCO| Other| | Companies  
At December 31, 2022| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Future cash inflows from production| $| 257,478 | | $| 76,940 | | $| 55,865 |
| $| 67,188 | | $| 147,839 | | $| 5,920 | | $| 611,230 | | | $| 106,114 | | $|
22,630 | | | $| 739,974 |  
Future production costs| (51,022)| | (22,744)| | (16,373)| | (12,261)| |
(13,313)| | (1,069)| | (116,782)| | | (28,046)| | (574)| | | (145,402)|  
Future development costs| (20,907)| | (3,233)| | (2,657)| | (2,879)| |
(5,030)| | (502)| | (35,208)| | | (4,127)| | (8)| | | (39,343)|  
Future income taxes| (40,096)| | (13,207)| | (26,160)| | (30,674)| | (38,861)|
| (2,827)| | (151,825)| | | (22,182)| | (7,707)| | | (181,714)|  
Undiscounted future net cash flows| 145,453 | | 37,756 | | 10,675 | | 21,374 |
| 90,635 | | 1,522 | | 307,415 | | | 51,759 | | 14,341 | | | 373,515 |  
  
10 percent midyear annual discount for timing of estimated cash flows

| (62,918)| | (22,165)| | (3,001)| | (10,769)| | (37,519)| | (571)| |
(136,943)| | | (18,810)| | (5,824)| | | (161,577)|  
  
Standardized Measure

Net Cash Flows

| $| 82,535 | | $| 15,591 | | $| 7,674 | | $| 10,605 | | $| 53,116 | | $| 951
| | $| 170,472 | | | $| 32,949 | | $| 8,517 | | | $| 211,938 |  
At December 31, 2021| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Future cash inflows from production| $| 174,976 | | $| 48,328 | | $| 41,698 |
| $| 52,881 | | $| 87,676 | | $| 4,366 | | $| 409,925 | | | $| 80,297 | | $|
8,446 | | | $| 498,668 |  
Future production costs| (40,009)| | (16,204)| | (15,204)| | (13,871)| |
(13,726)| | (1,400)| | (100,414)| | | (23,354)| | (285)| | | (124,053)|  
Future development costs| (16,709)| | (2,707)| | (2,245)| | (2,774)| |
(5,283)| | (661)| | (30,379)| | | (5,066)| | (18)| | | (35,463)|  
Future income taxes| (24,182)| | (7,723)| | (17,228)| | (21,064)| | (20,600)|
| (922)| | (91,719)| | | (15,563)| | (2,850)| | | (110,132)|  
Undiscounted future net cash flows| 94,076 | | 21,694 | | 7,021 | | 15,172 | |
48,067 | | 1,383 | | 187,413 | | | 36,314 | | 5,293 | | | 229,020 |  
  
10 percent midyear annual discount for timing of estimated cash flows

| (41,357)| | (11,370)| | (1,899)| | (7,277)| | (21,141)| | (485)| | (83,529)|
| | (14,372)| | (2,244)| | | (100,145)|  
  
Standardized Measure

Net Cash Flows

| $| 52,719 | | $| 10,324 | | $| 5,122 | | $| 7,895 | | $| 26,926 | | $| 898 |
| $| 103,884 | | | $| 21,942 | | $| 3,049 | | | $| 128,875 |  
At December 31, 2020| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Future cash inflows from production| $| 74,671 | | $| 29,605 | | $| 27,521 | |
$| 49,265 | | $| 53,241 | | $| 2,304 | | $| 236,607 | | | $| 53,309 | | $|
1,070 | | | $| 290,986 |  
Future production costs| (30,359)| | (15,410)| | (15,364)| | (12,784)| |
(11,036)| | (1,336)| | (86,289)| | | (19,525)| | (426)| | | (106,240)|  
Future development costs| (10,492)| | (2,366)| | (3,017)| | (2,274)| |
(3,205)| | (522)| | (21,876)| | | (7,138)| | (38)| | | (29,052)|  
Future income taxes| (5,874)| | (3,131)| | (6,197)| | (17,543)| | (11,700)| |
(178)| | (44,623)| | | (7,994)| | (212)| | | (52,829)|  
Undiscounted future net cash flows| 27,946 | | 8,698 | | 2,943 | | 16,664 | |
27,300 | | 268 | | 83,819 | | | 18,652 | | 394 | | | 102,865 |  
  
10 percent midyear annual discount for timing of estimated cash flows

| (10,456)| | (4,652)| | (582)| | (7,856)| | (11,774)| | (56)| | (35,376)| | |
(8,803)| | (149)| | | (44,328)|  
  
Standardized Measure

Net Cash Flows

| $| 17,490 | | $| 4,046 | | $| 2,361 | | $| 8,808 | | $| 15,526 | | $| 212 |
| $| 48,443 | | | $| 9,849 | | $| 245 | | | $| 58,537 |  
  
  

110

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited|

Financial Table of Contents  
  
  

Table VII - Changes in the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash
Flows From Proved Reserves

The changes in present values between years, which can be significant, reflect
changes in estimated proved reserve quantities and prices and assumptions used
in forecasting production volumes and costs. Changes in the timing of
production are included with "Revisions of previous quantity estimates."

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | | | | Total Consolidated and  
Millions of dollars| Consolidated Companies| | Affiliated Companies| |
Affiliated Companies  
Present Value at January 1, 2020| | $| 80,396 | | | | $| 20,151 | | | | $|
100,547 |  
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced net of production costs| |
(16,621)| | | | (2,322)| | | | (18,943)|  
Development costs incurred| | 6,301 | | | | 2,892 | | | | 9,193 |  
Purchases of reserves| | 10,295 | | | | -- | | | | 10,295 |  
Sales of reserves| | (803)| | | | -- | | | | (803)|  
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery less related costs| | 2,066 | |
| | -- | | | | 2,066 |  
Revisions of previous quantity estimates| | (1,293)| | | | 4,033 | | | | 2,740
|  
Net changes in prices, development and production costs| | (62,788)| | | |
(22,925)| | | | (85,713)|  
Accretion of discount| | 11,274 | | | | 2,948 | | | | 14,222 |  
Net change in income tax | | 19,616 | | | | 5,317 | | | | 24,933 |  
Net Change for 2020| | (31,953)| | | | (10,057)| | | | (42,010)|  
Present Value at December 31, 2020| | $| 48,443 | | | | $| 10,094 | | | | $|
58,537 |  
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced net of production costs| |
(34,668)| | | | (5,760)| | | | (40,428)|  
Development costs incurred| | 5,770 | | | | 2,445 | | | | 8,215 |  
Purchases of reserves| | 772 | | | | -- | | | | 772 |  
Sales of reserves| | (889)| | | | -- | | | | (889)|  
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery less related costs| | 12,091 | |
| | -- | | | | 12,091 |  
Revisions of previous quantity estimates| | 2,269 | | | | (6,675)| | | |
(4,406)|  
Net changes in prices, development and production costs| | 89,031 | | | |
30,076 | | | | 119,107 |  
Accretion of discount| | 6,657 | | | | 1,503 | | | | 8,160 |  
Net change in income tax | | (25,592)| | | | (6,692)| | | | (32,284)|  
Net Change for 2021| | 55,441 | | | | 14,897 | | | | 70,338 |  
Present Value at December 31, 2021| | $| 103,884 | | | | $| 24,991 | | | | $|
128,875 |  
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced net of production costs| |
(53,356)| | | | (9,127)| | | | (62,483)|  
Development costs incurred| | 7,962 | | | | 2,430 | | | | 10,392 |  
Purchases of reserves| | 2,248 | | | | -- | | | | 2,248 |  
Sales of reserves| | (1,807)| | | | -- | | | | (1,807)|  
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery less related costs| | 16,054 | |
| | 823 | | | | 16,877 |  
Revisions of previous quantity estimates| | 5,281 | | | | (1,481)| | | | 3,800
|  
Net changes in prices, development and production costs| | 110,467 | | | |
28,052 | | | | 138,519 |  
Accretion of discount| | 14,075 | | | | 3,429 | | | | 17,504 |  
Net change in income tax| | (34,336)| | | | (7,651)| | | | (41,987)|  
Net Change for 2022| | 66,588 | | | | 16,475 | | | | 83,063 |  
Present Value at December 31, 2022| | $| 170,472 | | | | $| 41,466 | | | | $|
211,938 |  
  
  

111

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
  

  

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)The following documents are filed as part of this report:

(1) Financial Statements:

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

Page(s)  
  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm --
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

|

58  
  
Consolidated Statement of Income for the three years ended December 31, 2022

|

60  
  
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the three years ended
December 31, 2022

|

61  
  
Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2022 and 2021

|

62  
  
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the three years ended December 31,
2022

|

63  
  
Consolidated Statement of Equity for the three years ended December 31, 2022

|

64  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

| 65 to 98  
  
(2) Financial Statement Schedules:

Included below is Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022.

(3) Exhibits:

The Exhibit Index on the following pages lists the exhibits that are filed as
part of this report.

Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year ended December 31  
Millions of Dollars| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Employee Termination Benefits | | | | |  
Balance at January 1| $| 43 | | | $| 470 | | | $| 7 |  
Additions (reductions) charged to expense| 1 | | | (30)| | | 859 |  
Payments| (33)| | | (397)| | | (396)|  
Balance at December 31 | $| 11 | | | $| 43 | | | $| 470 |  
Expected Credit Losses| | | | |  
Beginning allowance balance for expected credit losses| $| 745 | | | $| 671 |
| | $| 849 |  
Current period provision| 263 | | | 74 | | | 573 |  
| | | | |  
Write-offs charged against the allowance, if any| -- | | | -- | | | (751)|  
| | | | |  
Balance at December 31 | $| 1,008 | | | $| 745 | | | $| 671 |  
  
Deferred Income Tax Valuation Allowance1

| | | | |  
Balance at January 1| $| 17,651 | | | $| 17,762 | | | $| 15,965 |  
  
Additions to deferred income tax expense2

| 3,533 | | | 3,691 | | | 2,892 |  
Reduction of deferred income tax expense| (1,652)| | | (3,802)| | | (1,095)|  
Balance at December 31 | $| 19,532 | | | $| 17,651 | | | $| 17,762 |  
  
1 See also Note 17 Taxes.

2 Includes $974 of additions associated with the purchase of Noble in 2020.

Item 16. Form 10-K Summary

Not applicable.

112

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
  

  

EXHIBIT INDEX| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit No.

|

Description  
  
3.1|

[Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Chevron Corporation, dated May 30,
2008, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Chevron Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000095013408014499/f42584exv3w1.htm)  
  
3.2|

[By-Laws of Chevron Corporation, as amended and restated
](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)[December
7](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)[,
202](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)[2](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)[,](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)[ filed as Exhibit
3.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)[2](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)[ to Chevron Corporation's
](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)[Current
](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)[Report on Form
](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)[8-K filed December 8,
2022](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)[, and incorporated herein by
reference.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000078/chevroncorporationby-
laws.htm)  
  
4.1| Indenture, dated as of June 15, 1995, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Chevron
Corporation's Amendment Number 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed
June 14, 1995, and incorporated herein by reference.  
4.2|

[Indenture dated as of May 11, 2020, between Chevron Corporation and Deutsche
Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Chevron
Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 12, 2020, and incorporated
herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000119312520139497/d877876dex41.htm)  
  
4.3|

[Indenture dated as of August 12, 2020, among Chevron U.S.A. Inc., Chevron
Corporation, as guarantor, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as
trustee, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Chevron Corporation's Current Report on Form
8-K filed August 13, 2020, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000119312520218015/d91339dex41.htm)  
  
4.4|

[Confidential Stockholder Voting Policy of Chevron Corporation, filed as
Exhibit 4.2 to Chevron Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2008, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000089161809000054/f50714exv4w2.htm)  
  
4.5|

[Description of Securities Registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act,
filed as Exhibit 4.4 to Chevron Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2019, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341020000010/cvx12312019ex44.htm)  
  
10.1+

|

[Chevron Corporation Non-Employee Directors' Equity Compensation and Deferral
Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Chevron Corporation's Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000089161809000054/f50714exv10w1.htm)  
  
10.2+

|

[Amendment Number One to the Chevron Corporation Non-Employee Directors'
Equity Compensation and Deferral Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Chevron
Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
2016, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341016000070/cvx06302016ex101.htm)  
  
10.3+

|

[Form of Retainer Stock Option Agreement under the Chevron Corporation Non-
Employee Directors' Equity Compensation and Deferral Plan, filed as Exhibit
10.17 to Chevron Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000095012310016846/f54086exv10w17.htm)  
  
10.4+

|

[Form of Stock Units Agreement under the Chevron Corporation Non-Employee
Directors' Equity Compensation and Deferral Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.19 to
Chevron Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2008, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000089161809000054/f50714exv10w19.htm)  
  
10.5+|

[Chevron Incentive Plan, amended and restated effective January 1, 2021, filed
as Exhibit 10.5 to Chevron Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2020, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341021000009/exhibit105-chevronincent.htm)  
  
10.6+*|

[Summary of Chevron Incentive Plan Award Criteria](exhibit1062022.htm).  
  
10.7+|

[Long-Term Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Appendix B to
Chevron Corporation's Notice of the 2013 Annual Meeting and 2013 Proxy
Statement filed April 11, 2013, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000130817913000196/lchevron_def14a.htm)  
  
10.8+|

[Form of Performance Share Award Agreement under the Long-Term Incentive Plan
of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Chevron Corporation's Current
Report on Form 8-K filed February 1, 2021, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341021000005/formofpsuagreement2021.htm)  
  
10.9+

|

[Form of Performance Share Award Agreement under the Long-Term Incentive Plan
of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Chevron Corporation's Current
Report on Form 8-K filed February 3, 2020, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341020000007/exhibit101toform8-kpsu.htm)  
  
10.10+

|

[Form of Standard Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Long-Term
Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Chevron
Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 3, 2020, and
incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341020000007/exhibit103toform8-ksta.htm)  
  
10.11+

|

[Form of Special Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Long-Term
Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Chevron
Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 4, 2019, and
incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341019000004/exhibit103-2019specialrsua.htm)  
  
10.12+

|

[Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement under the Long-Term
Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Chevron
Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 3, 2020, and
incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341020000007/exhibit102toform8-knqs.htm)  
  
|  
  
113

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
  

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Exhibit No. | Description  
|  
10.13+|

[Form of Stock Appreciation Rights Award Agreement under the Long-Term
Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.13 to Chevron
Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019
and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341020000010/cvx12312019ex1013.htm)  
  
10.14+|

[Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Management Employees,
filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Chevron Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K
filed December 13, 2005, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000095013405023032/f15310exv10w5.htm)  
  
10.15+|

[Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Management Employees II,
filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Chevron Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2008, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000089161809000054/f50714exv10w5.htm)  
  
10.16+|

[Chevron Corporation Retirement Restoration Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.6 to
Chevron Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2008, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000089161809000054/f50714exv10w6.htm)  
  
10.17+|

[Amendment Number One to the Chevron Corporation Retirement Restoration Plan,
filed as Exhibit 10.23 to Chevron Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2017, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341018000010/cvx12312017ex1023.htm)  
  
10.18+|

[Chevron Corporation ESIP Restoration Plan, Amended and Restated as of January
1, 2018, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Chevron Corporation's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341017000046/a09302017ex101esiprestorat.htm)  
  
10.19+|

[Agreement between Chevron Corporation and R. Hewitt Pate, filed as Exhibit
10.16 to Chevron Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2011, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000095012312002976/f60351exv10w16.htm)  
  
10.20+|

[Amended and Restated Aircraft Time-Sharing Agreement, dated as of April 1,
2020, between Chevron U.S.A. Inc. and Michael K. Wirth, filed as Exhibit 10.1
to Chevron Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2020, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341020000020/a03312020ex101-aircraft.htm)  
  
10.21+|

[2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.1
to Chevron Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 27, 2022, and
incorporated herein by
reference.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000035/exhibit101to8-k.htm)  
  
10.22+|

[Form of Performance Share Award Agreement under the 2022 Long-Term Incentive
Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Chevron Corporation's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 27, 2023, and incorporated herein by
reference.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341023000005/exhibit101forjan2023recomp.htm)  
  
10.23+|

[Form of Standard Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (stock settled) under
the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit
10.2 to Chevron Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 27,
2023, and incorporated herein by
reference.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341023000005/exhibit102tojan2023formsta.htm)  
  
10.24+|

[Form of Standard Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (cash settled) under
the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit
10.3 to Chevron Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 27,
2023, and incorporated herein by
reference.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341023000005/ex103tojan2023formcompdeci.htm)  
  
10.25+|

[Form of Special Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (share settled) under
the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit
10.4 to Chevron Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 27,
2023, and incorporated herein by
reference.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341023000005/exhibit104jan2023formcompd.htm)  
  
10.26+|

[Form of Special Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (cash settled) under
the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit
10.5 to Chevron Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 27,
2023, and incorporated herein by
reference.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341023000005/exhibit105jan2023formcompd.htm)  
  
10.27+|

[Form of Non-Qualified Stock Options Award Agreement under the 2022 Long-Term
Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Chevron
Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 27, 2023, and
incorporated herein by
reference.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341023000005/exhibit106jan2023formcompd.htm)  
  
10.28+|

[Form of Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement under the 2022 Long-Term
Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.7 to Chevron
Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 27, 2023, and
incorporated herein by
reference.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341023000005/exhibit107tojan2023formcom.htm)  
  
10.29+|

[Letter Agreement, dated May 25, 2022, by and between Chevron Corporation and
Joseph C. Geagea, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Chevron Corporation's Current
Report on Form 8-K filed May 27, 2022, and incorporated herein by
reference.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341022000036/exhibit101to20220524formjo.htm)  
  
10.30+*|

[General Release and Separation Agreement, dated February 15, 2023, by and
between Chevron Corporation and James W. Johnson.](cvx12312022ex1030q4.htm)  
  
21.1*

|

[Subsidiaries of Chevron Corporation (page E-1).](cvx12312022ex211.htm)  
  
22.1*|

[Subsidiary Issuer of Guaranteed Securities.](a12312022ex221guaranteedse.htm)  
  
23.1*

|

[Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (page E-2).](cvx12312022ex231q4.htm)  
  
24.1*

|

[Power of Attorney for certain directors of Chevron Corporation, authorizing
the signing of the Annual Report on Form 10-K on their
behalf.](cvx12312022ex241q4.htm)  
  
114

  

* * *

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Table of Contents  
  
  

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Exhibit No.| Description  
  
31.1*

|

[Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification by the company's Chief Executive
Officer (page E-3).](a12312022ex311ceo-sox302.htm)  
  
31.2*

|

[Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification by the company's Chief Financial
Officer (page E-4).](a12312022ex312cfo-sox302.htm)  
  
32.1**

|

[Rule 13a-14(b)/15d-14(b) Certification by the company's Chief Executive
Officer (page E-5).](a12312022ex321ceo-sox906.htm)  
  
32.2**

|

[Rule 13a-14(b)/15d-14(b) Certification by the company's Chief Financial
Officer (page E-6).](a12312022ex322cfo-sox906.htm)  
  
99.1*|

[Definitions of Selected Energy and Financial Terms (pages E-7 through
E-10).](cvx12312022ex991.htm)  
  
99.2 |

[Report of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., filed as Exhibit 99.3 to
Chevron Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2020, and incorporated herein by
reference.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/93410/000009341021000009/exhibit993.htm)  
  
101*| Interactive data files (formatted as Inline XBRL).  
  
104*

| Cover Page Interactive Data File (contained in Exhibit 101).  
  
___________________________________________

\+ Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

* Filed herewith.

** Furnished herewith.

Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4) of Regulation S-K, certain instruments with respect
to the company's long-term debt are not filed with this Annual Report on Form
10-K. A copy of any such instrument will be furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission upon request.

115

  

* * *

  

Signatures

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 23rd day of
February, 2023.

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  Chevron Corporation  
  
By:| /s/ MICHAEL K. WIRTH  
| Michael K. Wirth, Chairman of the Board  
and Chief Executive Officer  
  
  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 23rd day of February, 2023.

| | |  
---|---|---|---  
Principal Executive Officer|  
(and Director)|  
|  
  
/s/ MICHAEL K. WIRTH  
Michael K. Wirth, Chairman of the  
Board and Chief Executive Officer

|  
|  
|  
Principal Financial Officer|  
|  
  
/s/ PIERRE R. BREBER  
Pierre R. Breber, Vice President  
and Chief Financial Officer  

|  
|  
Principal Accounting Officer|  
|  
  
/s/ DAVID A. INCHAUSTI  
David A. Inchausti, Vice President  
and Controller

|  
|  
  
*By: /s/ MARY A. FRANCIS   
Mary A. Francis,  
Attorney-in-Fact

|  
  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

| |  
---|---|---  
Directors  
  
WANDA M. AUSTIN*  
Wanda M. Austin  
  
JOHN B. FRANK*  
John B. Frank  
  
ALICE P. GAST*  
Alice P. Gast  
  
ENRIQUE HERNANDEZ, JR.*  
Enrique Hernandez, Jr.  
  
MARILLYN A. HEWSON*

Marillyn A. Hewson  
  
JON M. HUNTSMAN JR.*

Jon M. Huntsman Jr.  
  
CHARLES W. MOORMAN*  
Charles W. Moorman  
  
DAMBISA F. MOYO*  
Dambisa F. Moyo  
  
DEBRA REED-KLAGES*  
Debra Reed-Klages  
  
RONALD D. SUGAR*  
Ronald D. Sugar  
  
D. JAMES UMPLEBY III*  
D. James Umpleby III  
  
CYNTHIA J. WARNER*  
Cynthia J. Warner  
  
116

  

