http://fasb.org/us-

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

|  
---|---  
  
☑

|

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934  
  
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022

OR

|  
---|---  
  
☐

|

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934  
  
For the transition period from  to

Commission file number 001-14905

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

|  |  
---|---|---  
  
Delaware

|

|

47-0813844  
  
State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization

|

|

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)  
  
3555 Farnam Street, Omaha, Nebraska

|

|

68131  
  
(Address of principal executive office)

|

|

(Zip Code)  
  
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (402) 346-1400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

|  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
Title of each class

|

|

Trading Symbols

|

|

Name of each exchange on which registered  
  
Class A Common Stock

Class B Common Stock

0.750% Senior Notes due 2023

1.300% Senior Notes due 2024

0.000% Senior Notes due 2025

1.125% Senior Notes due 2027

2.150% Senior Notes due 2028

1.500% Senior Notes due 2030

2.000% Senior Notes due 2034

1.625% Senior Notes due 2035

2.375% Senior Notes due 2039

0.500% Senior Notes due 2041

2.625% Senior Notes due 2059

|

|

BRK.A

BRK.B

BRK23

BRK24

BRK25

BRK27

BRK28

BRK30

BRK34

BRK35

BRK39

BRK41

BRK59

|

|

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange  
  
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☑

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such
files). Yes ☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer,"
"accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth
company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Large accelerated filer ☑
Accelerated filer ☐

Non-accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐ Emerging growth company ☐

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the Registrant has
elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new
or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a)
of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and
attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting
firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☑

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by
check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the
filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial
statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements
that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by
any of the registrant's executive oﬃcers during the relevant recovery period
pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined
in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☑

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant as of June 30, 2022: $500,000,000,000

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant's classes
of common stock:

|  
---|---  
  
February 13, 2023--Class A common stock, $5 par value

|

590,835 shares  
  
February 13, 2023--Class B common stock, $0.0033 par value

|

1,301,100,243 shares  
  
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Registrant's Annual Meeting to be held
May 6, 2023 are incorporated in Part III.

* * *

Table of Contents

|  |  
---|---|---  
  
|

|

Page No.  
  
Part I  
  
|

|  
  
Item 1.

|

Business Description

|

K-1  
  
Item 1A.

|

Risk Factors

|

K-25  
  
Item 1B.

|

Unresolved Staff Comments

|

K-28  
  
Item 2.

|

Description of Properties

|

K-28  
  
Item 3.

|

Legal Proceedings

|

K-30  
  
Item 4.

|

Mine Safety Disclosures

|

K-30  
  
Part II  
  
|

|  
  
Item 5.

|

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Security Holder Matters and
Issuer  
Purchases of Equity Securities

|

K-31  
  
Item 6.

|

[Reserved]

|

K-32  
  
Item 7.

|

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

|

K-33  
  
Item 7A.

|

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

|

K-66  
  
Item 8.

|

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

|

K-67  
  
|

Consolidated Balance Sheets-- December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021

|

K-70  
  
|

Consolidated Statements of Earnings--

Years Ended December 31, 2022, December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2020

|

K-72  
  
|

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income--

Years Ended December 31, 2022, December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2020

|

K-73  
  
|

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity--

Years Ended December 31, 2022, December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2020

|

K-73  
  
|

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--

Years Ended December 31, 2022, December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2020

|

K-74  
  
|

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

|

K-75  
  
Item 9.

|

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

|

K-114  
  
Item 9A.

|

Controls and Procedures

|

K-114  
  
Item 9B.

|

Other Information

|

K-114  
  
Part III  
  
|

|  
  
Item 10.

|

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

|

K-114  
  
Item 11.

|

Executive Compensation

|

K-114  
  
Item 12.

|

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters

|

K-114  
  
Item 13.

|

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence

|

K-114  
  
Item 14.

|

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

|

K-114  
  
Part IV  
  
|

|  
  
Item 15.

|

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

|

K-114  
  
|  
  
Exhibit Index

|

K-118  
  
Signatures

|

K-120  
  
* * *

Part I

Item 1. Business Description

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ("Berkshire," "Company" or "Registrant") is a holding
company owning subsidiaries engaged in numerous diverse business activities.
The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both a
primary basis and a reinsurance basis, a freight rail transportation business
and a group of utility and energy generation and distribution businesses.
Berkshire also owns and operates numerous other businesses engaged in a
variety of manufacturing, services, retailing and other activities. Berkshire
is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters is in
Omaha, Nebraska.

Berkshire's operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized
basis. There are few centralized or integrated business functions. Berkshire's
corporate senior management team participates in and is ultimately responsible
for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the
selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses.

Berkshire's senior management is also responsible for establishing and
monitoring Berkshire's corporate governance practices, including monitoring
governance efforts, including those at the operating businesses, and
participating in the resolution of governance-related issues as needed.
Berkshire's Board of Directors is responsible for assuring an appropriate
successor to the Chief Executive Officer. The Berkshire Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics emphasizes, among other things, the commitment to ethics
and compliance with government laws and regulations and provides basic
standards for ethical and legal behavior of its employees.

Human capital and resources are an integral and essential component of
Berkshire's businesses. Berkshire and its consolidated subsidiaries employed
approximately 383,000 people worldwide at the end of 2022, of which
approximately 78% were in the United States ("U.S.") and 20% were represented
by unions. Employees engage in a wide variety of occupations. Consistent with
Berkshire's decentralized management philosophy, Berkshire's operating
businesses individually establish specific policies and practices concerning
the attraction and retention of personnel within their organizations. Given
the wide variations in the nature and size of business activities, specific
policies and practices may vary widely among Berkshire's operating
subsidiaries. Policies and practices commonly address, among other things:
maintaining a safe work environment and minimizing or eliminating workplace
injuries; offering competitive compensation, which includes various health
insurance and retirement benefits, as well as incentives to recognize and
reward performance; wellness programs; training, learning and career
advancement opportunities; and hiring practices intended to identify qualified
candidates and promote diversity and inclusion in the workforce. Berkshire's
consolidated U.S. workforce demographics, based on U.S. Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission guidelines, are available on its website
(https://www.berkshirehathaway.com), under sustainability.

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

Berkshire's insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted
through numerous domestic and foreign-based insurance subsidiaries.
Berkshire's insurance subsidiaries provide insurance and reinsurance of
property and casualty risks and reinsurance of life and health risks
worldwide. Berkshire's insurance subsidiaries employed approximately 50,000
people at the end of 2022. For purposes of this discussion, entities that
provide insurance or reinsurance are referred to as insurers.

In direct or primary insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of
loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks.
Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident,
health, financial or other perils that may arise from an insurable event. In
reinsurance activities, the insurer assumes defined portions of risks that
other direct insurers or reinsurers assumed in their own insuring activities.

Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative
contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for all or a
portion of a specified group or class of risks ceded by a direct insurer or
reinsurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific
individual underlying risks. Reinsurance contracts are further classified as
quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata)
reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums and
losses of the direct insurer or reinsurer. Excess (or non-proportional)
reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the direct insurer or
reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount
or "retention." Both quota-share and excess reinsurance contracts may provide
for aggregate limits of indemnification.

Insurance and reinsurance are generally subject to regulatory oversight
throughout the world. Except for regulatory considerations, there are
virtually no barriers to entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry.
Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The
number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers compete on
the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, financial ratings,
underwriting consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance,
capacity, policy terms and coverage conditions.

K-1

* * *

Insurers based in the U.S. are subject to regulation by their states of
domicile and by those states in which they are licensed to write policies on
an admitted basis. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers
are financially solvent and that policyholder interests are otherwise
protected. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and
establish guidelines for permissible business and investment activities.
States have the authority to suspend or revoke a company's authority to do
business as conditions warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by
insurance companies to their shareholders and other transactions with
affiliates. Dividends, capital distributions and other transactions of
extraordinary amounts are subject to prior regulatory approval.

Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states where
they are licensed. These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers.
Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of
their policy forms and premium rates. Non-admitted insurance markets have
developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable through admitted
insurers. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as "excess and surplus"
lines, is procured by either state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place
risks with insurers not licensed in that state or by the insured party's
direct procurement from non-admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance is
subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and
forms. Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain regulatory approval of
premium rates or reinsurance contracts.

The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). The NAIC adopts forms,
instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers in preparing
and filing annual statutory financial statements. However, an insurer's state
of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters. In addition to its
activities relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or adopts
statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use
by its members. Such matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, risk
management, compliance with financial regulation standards and risk-based
capital reporting requirements.

U.S. states, through the NAIC, and international insurance regulators through
the International Association of Insurance Supervisors ("IAIS") have been
developing standards and best practices focused on establishing a common set
of principles ("Insurance Core Principles") and framework ("ComFrame") for the
regulation of large multi-national insurance groups. The IAIS is developing
capital standards for internationally active insurance groups (the "Insurance
Capital Standard") based on a consolidated group approach and is also
evaluating a potentially comparable group capital standard based on the
aggregation of regulated entities and their underlying local capital
requirements (the "Aggregation Method"). The IAIS standards address a variety
of topics regarding supervision, coordination of regulators, insurance capital
standards, risk management and governance. While the IAIS standards do not
have legal effect, U.S. state insurance departments and the NAIC are
implementing various group supervision regulatory tools and mandates that are
responsive to certain IAIS standards. U.S. state regulators have formed
supervisory colleges intended to promote communication and cooperation amongst
the various domestic and international insurance regulators. The Nebraska
Department of Insurance acts as the lead supervisor for our group of insurance
companies and chairs the Berkshire supervisory college. U.S. state regulators
require insurance groups to file an annual report and an Own Risk Solvency
Assessment or ORSA, with the group's lead supervisor. The NAIC recently
adopted a group capital calculation based on methodology similar to the
Aggregation Method, which leverages the NAIC's existing Risk Based Capital
standards. The NAIC's group capital calculation is a tool designed to help the
lead supervisor understand the capital adequacy across an insurance group. The
NAIC is also developing further tools, including various liquidity
assessments, that will likely be imposed on insurance groups in the future.

Berkshire's insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally
high levels, which differentiates them from their competitors. The combined
statutory surplus of Berkshire's U.S.-based insurers was approximately $272
billion at December 31, 2022. Berkshire's major insurance subsidiaries are
rated AA+ by Standard & Poor's and A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to
their financial condition and claims paying ability.

The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 established within the Department of
the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program ("Program") for commercial property
and casualty insurers by providing federal reinsurance of insured terrorism
losses. The Program currently extends to December 31, 2027 through other Acts,
most recently the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of
2019. Hereinafter these Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. Under TRIA,
the Department of the Treasury is charged with certifying "acts of terrorism."
Coverage under TRIA occurs if the industry insured loss for certified events
occurring during the calendar year exceeds $200 million in any calendar year.

To be eligible for federal reinsurance, insurers must make available insurance
coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and
conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this
coverage and of the federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act
of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA
participation. TRIA currently also excludes certain forms of direct insurance
(such as personal and commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain
professional liability lines). Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism
coverage and are not eligible for federal reinsurance of terrorism losses.

K-2

* * *

In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the federal government will
reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder
notification requirements) for 80% of their insured losses in excess of an
insurance group's deductible. Under the Program, the deductible is 20% of the
aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines of
business in the immediately preceding calendar year. The aggregate deductible
in 2023 for Berkshire's insurance group is expected to approximate $2.25
billion. There is also an aggregate program limit of $100 billion on the
amount of the federal government coverage for each TRIA year.

The extent of insurance regulation varies significantly among the countries in
which our non-U.S. operations conduct business. While each country imposes
licensing, solvency, auditing and financial reporting requirements, the type
and extent of the requirements differ substantially. For example:

•

in some countries, insurers are required to prepare and file monthly and/or
quarterly financial reports, and in others, only annual reports;

•

some regulators require intermediaries to be involved in the sale of insurance
products, whereas other regulators permit direct sales contact between the
insurer and the customer;

•

the extent of restrictions imposed upon an insurer's use of local and offshore
reinsurance vary;

•

policy form filing and rate regulation vary by country;

•

the frequency of contact and periodic on-site examinations by insurance
authorities differ by country;

•

the scope and prescriptive requirements of an insurer's risk management and
governance framework vary significantly by country; and

•

regulatory requirements relating to insurer dividend policies vary by country.

Significant variations can also be found in the size, structure and resources
of the local regulatory departments that oversee insurance activities. Certain
regulators prefer close relationships with all subject insurers and others
operate a risk-based approach.

Berkshire's insurance group operates in some countries through subsidiaries
and in some countries through branches of subsidiaries. Berkshire insurance
subsidiaries are located in several countries, including Germany, the United
Kingdom ("U.K."), Ireland, Australia and South Africa, and also maintain
branches in several other countries. Most of these foreign jurisdictions
impose local capital requirements. Other legal requirements include
discretionary licensing procedures, local retention of funds and records, and
data privacy and protection program requirements. Berkshire's international
insurance companies are also subject to multinational application of certain
U.S. laws.

There are various regulatory bodies and initiatives that impact Berkshire in
multiple international jurisdictions and the potential for significant effect
on the Berkshire insurance group could be heightened as a result of recent
industry and economic developments. In 2016, the U.K. voted in a national
referendum to withdraw from the European Union ("EU") ("Brexit"), which
resulted in the U.K.'s withdrawal from the EU on January 31, 2020. In
anticipation of the U.K. leaving the EU, Berkshire Hathaway European Insurance
DAC in Ireland was established to permit property and casualty insurance and
reinsurance businesses to continue to operate in the EU. Berkshire also
continues to maintain a substantial presence in London following Brexit.

Alleghany Corporation ("Alleghany"), based in New York, New York, was acquired
by Berkshire on October 19, 2022. Alleghany's operating subsidiaries include
property and casualty reinsurance and insurance, as well as a portfolio of
non-financial businesses. Information regarding Alleghany's primary insurance
and reinsurance activities is provided in the Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group
and Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group sections and its non-insurance
businesses are included in the manufacturing and services sections.

Berkshire's insurance underwriting operations include the following groups:
(1) GEICO, (2) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group and (3) Berkshire Hathaway
Reinsurance Group. Except for retroactive reinsurance and periodic payment
annuity products, which generate significant amounts of up-front premiums
along with estimated claims expected to be paid over long time periods
(creating "float," see Investments section), Berkshire expects to achieve an
underwriting profit over time and that its managers will reject inadequately
priced risks. Underwriting profit is defined as earned premiums less
associated incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting and
policy acquisition expenses. Underwriting profit does not include income
earned from investments. Additional information related to each of Berkshire's
underwriting groups follows.

K-3

* * *

GEICO--GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland. GEICO's insurance
subsidiaries consist of Government Employees Insurance Company, GEICO General
Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company, GEICO Casualty Company, GEICO
Advantage Insurance Company, GEICO Choice Insurance Company, GEICO Secure
Insurance Company, GEICO County Mutual Insurance Company, GEICO Texas County
Mutual Insurance Company and GEICO Marine Insurance Company. The GEICO
companies primarily offer private passenger automobile insurance to
individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. GEICO also provides
insurance for motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, recreational vehicles, boats
and small commercial fleets and acts as an agent for other insurers who offer
homeowners, renters, life and identity management insurance to individuals
desiring insurance coverages other than those offered by GEICO.

GEICO's marketing is primarily through direct response methods in which
applications for insurance are submitted directly to the companies via the
Internet or by telephone, and to a lesser extent, through captive agents.
GEICO conducts business through regional service centers and claims adjustment
and other facilities in 39 states.

The automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price
and service. GEICO competes for private passenger automobile insurance
customers in the preferred, standard and non-standard risk markets with other
companies that sell directly to the customer and with companies that use
agency sales forces, including State Farm, Allstate, Progressive and USAA.
GEICO's advertising campaigns and competitive rates contributed to a
cumulative increase in voluntary policies-in-force of approximately 4.0% over
the past five years. During 2022, GEICO experienced a reduction of 1.7 million
voluntary policies-in-force after flat year-over-year growth from 2020 to
2021. According to the most recently published A.M. Best data for 2021, the
five largest automobile insurers had a combined market share in 2021 of
approximately 60.5% based on written premiums, with GEICO's market share being
the second largest at approximately 14.4%. GEICO's management estimates its
current market share is approximately 13.9%. The COVID-19 pandemic and
subsequent supply chain disruptions affecting automobile manufacturers have
impacted GEICO's business and underwriting results in 2020 and thereafter.
Seasonal variations in GEICO's insurance business are not significant.
However, extraordinary weather conditions or other factors may have a
significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.

State insurance departments stringently regulate private passenger auto
insurance. As a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to
differentiate their products. Competition for private passenger automobile
insurance tends to focus on price and level of customer service provided.
GEICO's cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on
customer satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and value to its
customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to manage and settle
claims. The name and reputation of GEICO are material assets and management
protects those and other service marks through appropriate registrations.

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group--The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group ("BH
Primary") is a collection of independently managed insurers that provide a
wide variety of insurance coverages to policyholders located principally in
the U.S. These various operations are discussed below.

National Indemnity Company ("NICO"), domiciled in Nebraska, and certain
affiliates ("NICO Primary") underwrite commercial motor vehicle and general
liability insurance on an admitted basis and on an excess and surplus basis.
Insurance coverages are offered nationwide primarily through insurance agents
and brokers.

The Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies ("BHHC") is a group of insurers
offering workers' compensation, commercial automobile and commercial property
coverages to a diverse client base. BHHC has a national reach, with the
ability to provide first-dollar and small to large deductible workers'
compensation coverage to employers in all states, except those where coverage
is available only through state-operated workers' compensation funds. NICO
Primary and BHHC are each based in Omaha, Nebraska.

Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance ("BH Specialty") offers commercial
property, casualty, healthcare professional liability, executive and
professional, surety, travel, medical stop loss and homeowner's insurance
through Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance Company and other Berkshire
insurance affiliates. BH Specialty writes primary and excess and surplus
policies on an admitted and non-admitted basis in the U.S., and on a local or
foreign non-admitted basis outside the U.S. BH Specialty is based in Boston,
Massachusetts, with regional offices in several U.S. cities. BH Specialty also
maintains international offices and branches located in Australia, New
Zealand, Canada and several countries in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. BH
Specialty writes business through wholesale and retail insurance brokers, as
well as managing general agents.

Alleghany's property and casualty insurance business is conducted in the U.S.
on both an admitted and non-admitted basis through RSUI Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries ("RSUI") and CapSpecialty, Inc. and its subsidiaries
("CapSpecialty"). RSUI and CapSpecialty primarily write specialty insurance in
the property, umbrella/excess liability, professional liability, directors'
and officers' liability, and general liability lines of business. Insurance is
written through independent wholesale insurance brokers, retail agents and
managing general agents.

K-4

* * *

MedPro Group ("MedPro") is a leading provider of healthcare liability ("HCL")
insurance based on premiums written. MedPro provides customized HCL insurance,
claims, patient safety and risk solutions to physicians, surgeons, dentists
and other healthcare professionals, as well as hospitals, senior care and
other healthcare facilities. Additionally, MedPro provides HCL insurance
solutions to international markets through other Berkshire insurance
affiliates, delivers liability insurance to other professionals, and offers
specialized accident and health insurance solutions to colleges and other
customers through its subsidiaries and other Berkshire insurance affiliates.
MedPro is based in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

U.S. Liability Insurance Company ("USLI") includes a group of five specialty
insurers that underwrite commercial, professional and personal lines of
insurance on an admitted basis, as well as on an excess and surplus basis.
USLI markets policies in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Canada
through wholesale and retail insurance agents. USLI companies also underwrite
and market a wide variety of specialty insurance products. USLI is based in
Wayne, Pennsylvania. Berkshire Hathaway GUARD Insurance Companies ("GUARD") is
a group of five insurance companies that provide a full suite of commercial
insurance products, as well as homeowners policies to over 350,000 small to
mid-sized businesses and homeowners. These offerings are made through
independent agents and retail and wholesale brokers. GUARD is based in Wilkes-
Barre, Pennsylvania.

Berkshire Hathaway Direct Insurance Company and its affiliates ("BH Direct")
offer commercial insurance products (including workers' compensation,
property, auto, general and professional liability) to small business
customers. BH Direct's products are primarily sold through two internet-based
distribution platforms, biBERK.com and Threeinsurance.com. BH Direct writes
policies on an admitted basis and is based in Stamford, Connecticut. MLMIC
Insurance Company ("MLMIC") is a leading writer of medical professional
liability insurance in New York State. MLMIC distributes the majority of its
policies on a direct basis to medical and dental professionals, health care
providers and hospitals.

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group--Berkshire's combined global reinsurance
business, referred to as the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ("BHRG"),
offers a wide range of coverages on property, casualty, life and health risks
to insurers and reinsurers worldwide. BHRG conducts business activities in 27
countries. Reinsurance business is written through NICO and several other
Berkshire insurance subsidiaries ("NICO Group"), General Re Corporation, and
its subsidiaries ("General Re Group") and Alleghany's Transatlantic
Reinsurance Company and affiliates ("TransRe Group"). The NICO Group and Gen
Re Group underwriting operations in the U.S. are based in Stamford,
Connecticut and the TransRe Group is based in New York, New York.

The type and volume of business written is dependent on market conditions,
including prevailing premium rates and coverage terms. The level of
underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year
depending on the perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and
reinsurance markets as well as from the timing of particularly large
reinsurance transactions.

Property/casualty

The NICO Group offers traditional property/casualty reinsurance on both an
excess-of-loss and a quota-share basis, catastrophe excess-of-loss treaty and
facultative reinsurance, and primary insurance on an excess-of-loss basis for
large or unusual risks. The type and volume of business written by the NICO
Group may vary significantly from period to period resulting from changes in
perceived premium rate adequacy and from unique or large transactions. A
significant portion of NICO Group's annual reinsurance premium volume
currently derives from a 20% quota-share agreement with Insurance Australia
Group Limited ("IAG") that incepted in 2015. The agreement was renewed, and
extended, effective January 1, 2023, with an expiration of December 31, 2029.
IAG is a multi-line insurer in Australia, New Zealand and other Asia-Pacific
countries.

The General Re Group conducts a global property and casualty reinsurance
business. Reinsurance contracts are written on both a quota-share and excess
basis for multiple lines of business. Contracts are primarily in the form of
treaties, and to a lesser degree, on a facultative basis. General Re Group
conducts business in North America, primarily marketed on a direct basis
through General Reinsurance Corporation ("GRC"), which is licensed in the
District of Columbia and all states, except Hawaii, where it is an accredited
reinsurer. GRC also conducts operations in North America through 11 branch
offices in the U.S. and Canada.

In North America, the General Re Group includes General Star National
Insurance Company, General Star Indemnity Company and Genesis Insurance
Company, which offer a broad array of specialty and surplus lines and
property, casualty and professional liability coverages. Such business is
marketed through a select group of wholesale brokers, managing general
underwriters and program administrators, and offers solutions for the unique
needs of public entity, commercial and captive customers.

General Re Group's international reinsurance business is conducted on a direct
basis through General Reinsurance AG, based in Cologne, Germany, and through
subsidiaries and branches in numerous other countries. International business
is also written through brokers, including Faraday Underwriting Limited
("Faraday"), a subsidiary. Faraday owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at
Lloyd's of London and provides capacity and participates in 100% of the
results of Syndicate 435.

K-5

* * *

The TransRe Group provides pro-rata and excess-of-loss reinsurance across
various property and casualty lines of business. Contracts are written on both
a treaty and facultative basis to insurance and other reinsurance companies in
the U.S. and in foreign markets through subsidiaries and branches in numerous
countries. Business is written primarily through brokers, and to a lesser
extent on a direct basis.

Life/health

The General Re Group conducts a global life and health reinsurance business.
In the U.S. and internationally, the General Re Group writes life, disability,
supplemental health, critical illness and long-term care coverages. The
life/health business is marketed on a direct basis. Life/health net premiums
written by the General Re Group in 2022 were primarily in the Asia Pacific,
U.S. and Western Europe.

Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska ("BHLN") and its
affiliates write reinsurance covering various forms of traditional life
insurance exposures. BHLN and affiliates are parties to contracts that
reinsure certain guaranteed minimum death, income and similar benefit risks on
closed-blocks of variable annuity risks under reinsurance contracts, with the
most recent contract incepting in 2014.

Retroactive reinsurance

NICO also occasionally writes retroactive reinsurance contracts. Retroactive
reinsurance contracts indemnify ceding companies against the adverse
development of claims arising from loss events that have already occurred
under property and casualty policies issued in prior years. Premiums from such
contracts may be exceptionally large in amount. Coverages under such contracts
are provided on an excess basis (above a stated retention) or for losses
payable after the inception of the contract with no additional ceding company
retention. Contracts are normally subject to aggregate limits of
indemnification, which can be exceptionally large in amount. Significant
amounts of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims may arise under
these contracts.

The concept of time-value-of-money is an important element in establishing
retroactive reinsurance contract prices and terms since loss payments may
occur over decades. Normally, expected ultimate losses payable under these
policies are expected to exceed premiums, thus producing underwriting losses.
Nevertheless, this business is written, in part, because of the large amounts
of policyholder funds generated for investment, the economic benefit of which
will be reflected through investment results in future periods.

Periodic payment annuity

BHLN writes periodic payment annuity insurance policies and reinsures annuity-
like obligations. Under these policies, BHLN receives upfront consideration
and agrees in the future to make periodic payments that often extend for
decades. These policies generally relate to the settlement of underlying
personal injury or workers' compensation claims of other insurers, known as
structured settlements. Consistent with retroactive reinsurance contracts,
time-value-of-money is an important factor in establishing annuity premiums,
and underwriting losses are expected from the periodic accretion of time-value
discounted liabilities.

Investments of insurance businesses--Berkshire's insurance subsidiaries hold
significant levels of invested assets. Investment portfolios are managed by
Berkshire's Chief Executive Officer and Berkshire's other investment managers.
Investments include a very large portfolio of publicly traded equity
securities, which is unusually concentrated in relatively few issuers, as well
as fixed maturity securities and cash and short-term investments. Generally,
there are no targeted allocations by investment type or attempts to match
investment asset and insurance liability durations. However, investment
portfolios have historically included a much greater proportion of equity
securities than is customary in the insurance industry.

Invested assets derive from shareholder capital as well as funds provided from
policyholders through insurance and reinsurance business ("float"). Float is
an approximation of the net policyholder funds generated through underwriting
activities that is held for investment. The major components of float are
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, life, annuity and health benefit
liabilities, unearned premiums and other policyholder liabilities less premium
and reinsurance receivables, deferred policy acquisition costs and deferred
charges on assumed retroactive reinsurance contracts. On a consolidated basis,
float has grown from approximately $114 billion at the end of 2017 to
approximately $164 billion at the end of 2022. The cost of float can be
measured as the net pre-tax underwriting loss as a percentage of average
float. The cost of float was nominal in 2022, reflecting a small underwriting
loss. In 2021 and 2020, the cost of float was negative, reflecting
underwriting earnings in each of those years.

Railroad Business--Burlington Northern Santa Fe

Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC ("BNSF") is based in Fort Worth, Texas, and
through BNSF Railway Company ("BNSF Railway") operates one of the largest
railroad systems in North America. BNSF Railway had approximately 36,000
employees at the end of 2022, of whom approximately 31,000 were members of a
labor union. BNSF also operates a relatively smaller third-party logistics
services business.

K-6

* * *

In serving the Midwest, Pacific Northwest, Western, Southwestern and
Southeastern regions and ports of the U.S., BNSF transports a range of
products and commodities derived from manufacturing, agricultural and natural
resource industries. Freight revenues are covered by contractual agreements of
varying durations or common carrier published prices or company quotations.
BNSF's financial performance is influenced by, among other things, general and
industry economic conditions at the international, national and regional
levels.

BNSF's primary routes, including trackage rights, allow it to access major
cities and ports in the western and southern U.S. as well as parts of Canada
and Mexico. In addition to major cities and ports, BNSF Railway efficiently
serves many smaller markets by working closely with approximately 200
shortline railroads. BNSF Railway has also entered into marketing agreements
with other rail carriers, expanding the marketing reach for each railroad and
their customers. For the year ending December 31, 2022, 38% of freight
revenues were derived from consumer products, 23% from industrial products,
23% from agricultural products and 16% from coal.

Regulatory Matters

BNSF is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations generally
applicable to its businesses. Rail operations are subject to the regulatory
jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board ("STB"), the Federal Railroad
Administration of the United States Department of Transportation ("DOT"), the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA"), the Environmental
Protection Agency ("EPA"), as well as other federal and state regulatory
agencies and Canadian regulatory agencies for operations in Canada. The STB
has jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving certain rates, routes
and services, the sale or abandonment of rail lines, applications for line
extensions and construction, and the merger with or acquisition of control of
rail common carriers. The outcome of STB proceedings can affect the
profitability of BNSF Railway's business.

The DOT, OSHA, and EPA have jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a
number of safety, health, and environmental aspects of rail operations,
including the transportation of hazardous materials. BNSF Railway is required
to transport these materials to the extent of its common carrier obligation.
State agencies regulate some health, safety, and environmental aspects of rail
operations in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law.

Environmental Matters

BNSF's rail operations, as well as those of its competitors, are also subject
to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulations covering
discharges to the ground or waters, air emissions, toxic substances and the
generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and
hazardous materials. Such regulations effectively increase the costs and
liabilities associated with rail operations. Environmental risks are also
inherent in rail operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals
and other hazardous materials.

Many of BNSF's land holdings are or have been used for industrial or
transportation-related purposes or leased to commercial or industrial
companies whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property.
Under federal (in particular, the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act) and state statutes, BNSF may be held jointly
and severally liable for cleanup and enforcement costs associated with a
particular site without regard to fault or the legality of the original
conduct. BNSF may also be subject to claims by third parties for
investigation, cleanup, restoration or other environmental costs under
environmental statutes or common law with respect to properties they own that
have been impacted by BNSF operations.

Consumption of diesel fuel by locomotives accounted for approximately 80% of
BNSF's greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions in its baseline year of 2018. BNSF
management has committed to a broad sustainability model, applying science
based approaches, that will provide a 30% reduction in BNSF's GHG-emissions by
2030 from its baseline year of 2018. BNSF intends to continue improvements in
fuel efficiency and increased utilization of renewable diesel fuel. Long-term
solutions, such as battery-electric and hydrogen locomotives, are also being
evaluated and field-tested.

Competition

The business environment in which BNSF operates is highly competitive.
Depending on the specific market, deregulated motor carriers and other
railroads, as well as river barges, ships and pipelines, may exert pressure on
price and service levels. The presence of advanced, high service truck lines
with expedited delivery, subsidized infrastructure and minimal empty mileage
continues to affect the market for non-bulk, time-sensitive freight. The
potential expansion of longer combination vehicles could further encroach upon
markets traditionally served by railroads. In order to remain competitive,
BNSF Railway and other railroads seek to develop and implement operating
efficiencies to improve productivity.

As railroads streamline, rationalize and otherwise enhance their franchises,
competition among rail carriers intensifies. BNSF Railway's primary rail
competitor in the Western region of the U.S. is the Union Pacific Railroad
Company. Other Class I railroads and numerous regional railroads and motor
carriers also operate in parts of the same territories served by BNSF Railway.

K-7

* * *

Utilities and Energy Businesses--Berkshire Hathaway Energy

Berkshire currently holds a 92% ownership interest in Berkshire Hathaway
Energy Company ("BHE"), based in Des Moines, Iowa. BHE is a global energy
company with subsidiaries and affiliates that generate, transmit, store,
distribute and supply energy. BHE's domestic regulated energy interests are
comprised of four regulated U.S. utility companies (collectively, "U.S.
utilities") serving approximately 5.2 million retail customers and five U.S.
interstate natural gas pipeline companies with approximately 21,200 miles of
operated pipeline having a design capacity of approximately 21 billion cubic
feet of natural gas per day. Other energy businesses include electric
transmission and distribution operations in Great Britain and Canada, a
diversified portfolio of mostly renewable independent power projects and
investments, and a liquefied natural gas export, import and storage facility.
BHE also owns a residential real estate brokerage firm in the U.S. and a large
network of residential real estate brokerage franchises in the U.S. BHE
employs approximately 24,000 people in connection with its various operations.

General Matters

BHE's U.S. utilities include PacifiCorp, MidAmerican Energy Company ("MEC")
and NV Energy, Inc.'s ("NV Energy") two regulated utility subsidiaries, Nevada
Power Company ("Nevada Power") and Sierra Pacific Power Company ("Sierra
Pacific"). PacifiCorp is a regulated electric utility company headquartered in
Oregon, serving electric customers in portions of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming,
Washington, Idaho and California. The combined service territory's diverse
regional economy ranges from rural, agricultural and mining areas to urban,
manufacturing and government service centers. No single segment of the economy
dominates the combined service territory, which helps mitigate PacifiCorp's
exposure to economic fluctuations. In addition to retail sales, PacifiCorp
sells electricity on a wholesale basis.

MEC is a regulated electric and natural gas utility company headquartered in
Iowa, serving electric and natural gas customers primarily in Iowa and also in
portions of Illinois, South Dakota and Nebraska. MEC has a diverse retail
customer base consisting of urban and rural residential customers and a
variety of commercial and industrial customers. In addition to retail sales
and natural gas transportation, MEC sells electricity and natural gas on a
wholesale basis.

Nevada Power serves retail electric customers in southern Nevada and Sierra
Pacific serves retail electric and natural gas customers in northern Nevada.
The combined Nevada Power/Sierra Pacific service territory economy includes
gaming, mining, recreation, warehousing, manufacturing and governmental
services. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, these
utilities sell electricity and natural gas on a wholesale basis.

As vertically integrated utilities, BHE's U.S. utilities collectively own
approximately 29,500 net megawatts of generation capacity in operation and
under construction. The U.S. utilities' business is subject to seasonal
variations principally related to the use of electricity for air conditioning
and natural gas for heating. Typically, regulated electric revenues are higher
in the summer months, while regulated natural gas revenues are higher in the
winter months.

The natural gas pipelines consist of BHE GT&S, LLC ("BHE GT&S"), Northern
Natural Gas Company ("Northern Natural") and Kern River Gas Transmission
Company ("Kern River"). BHE GT&S was acquired on November 1, 2020.

BHE GT&S, based in Virginia, operates three interstate natural gas pipeline
systems that consist of approximately 5,400 miles of natural gas transmission,
gathering and storage pipelines and operates seventeen underground natural gas
storage fields in the eastern region of the U.S. BHE GT&S's large underground
natural gas storage assets and pipeline systems are part of an interconnected
gas transmission network that provides transportation services to utilities
and numerous other customers. BHE GT&S is also an industry leader in liquefied
natural gas solutions through its investments in and ownership of several
liquefied natural gas facilities located throughout the eastern region of the
U.S.

Northern Natural, based in Nebraska, operates the largest interstate natural
gas pipeline system in the U.S., as measured by pipeline miles, reaching from
west Texas to Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Northern Natural's pipeline system
consists of approximately 14,400 miles of natural gas pipelines. Northern
Natural's extensive pipeline system, which is interconnected with many
interstate and intrastate pipelines in the national grid system, has access to
supplies from multiple major supply basins and provides transportation
services to utilities and numerous other customers. Northern Natural also
operates three underground natural gas storage facilities and two liquefied
natural gas storage peaking units. Northern Natural's pipeline system
experiences significant seasonal swings in demand and revenue, with the
highest demand typically occurring during the months of November through
March.

Kern River, based in Utah, operates an interstate natural gas pipeline system
that consists of approximately 1,400 miles and extends from supply areas in
the Rocky Mountains to consuming markets in Utah, Nevada and California. Kern
River transports natural gas for electric and natural gas distribution
utilities, major oil and natural gas companies or affiliates of such
companies, electric generating companies, energy marketing and trading
companies, and financial institutions.

K-8

* * *

Other energy businesses include Northern Powergrid (Northeast) plc and
Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) plc, which own a substantial electricity
distribution network that delivers electricity to end-users in northeast
England in an area covering approximately 10,000 square miles. These
distribution companies primarily charge supply companies regulated tariffs for
the use of their distribution systems and serve about 4.0 million electricity
end-users. AltaLink L.P. ("AltaLink") is a regulated electric transmission-
only utility company headquartered in Calgary, Alberta. AltaLink's high
voltage transmission lines and related facilities transmit electricity from
generating facilities to major load centers, cities and large industrial
plants throughout its 87,000 square mile service territory. AltaLink serves
approximately 85% of Alberta's population. BHE and its subsidiaries, also own
interests in independent power projects having approximately 6,000 net
megawatts of generation capacity that are in service in California, Texas,
Illinois, Nebraska, Montana, Australia, New York, Arizona, Canada, Minnesota,
Kansas, Iowa and Hawaii. These independent power projects sell power generated
primarily from wind, solar, geothermal and hydro sources under long-term
contracts. Additionally, $7.3 billion has been invested in wind projects
sponsored by third parties, commonly referred to as tax equity investments.

Regulatory Matters

The U.S. utilities are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal,
state and local agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") is
an independent agency with broad authority to implement provisions of the
Federal Power Act, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other federal statutes.
The FERC regulates rates for wholesale sales of electricity; transmission of
electricity, including pricing and regional planning for the expansion of
transmission systems; electric system reliability; utility holding companies;
accounting and records retention; securities issuances; construction and
operation of hydroelectric facilities; and other matters. The FERC also has
the enforcement authority to assess civil penalties of up to $1.5 million per
day per violation of rules, regulations and orders issued under the Federal
Power Act. MEC is also subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with respect
to its 25% ownership of the Quad Cities Nuclear Station.

With certain limited exceptions, the U.S. utilities have an exclusive right to
serve retail customers within their service territories and, in turn, have an
obligation to provide service to those customers. In some jurisdictions,
certain classes of customers may choose to purchase all or a portion of their
energy from alternative energy suppliers, and in some jurisdictions retail
customers can generate all or a portion of their own energy. Historically,
state regulatory commissions have established retail electric and natural gas
rates on a cost-of-service basis, which are designed to allow a utility the
opportunity to recover what each state regulatory commission deems to be the
utility's reasonable costs of providing services, including a fair opportunity
to earn a reasonable return on its investments based on its cost of debt and
equity. The retail electric rates of U.S. utilities are generally based on the
cost of providing traditional bundled services, including generation,
transmission and distribution services; however, rates are available for
transmission-only and distribution-only services.

Northern Powergrid (Northeast) plc and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) plc each
charge fees for the use of their distribution systems that are controlled by a
formula prescribed by the British electricity regulatory body, the Gas and
Electricity Markets Authority. The current eight-year price control period
runs from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2023 and the next price control
period is set for the five-year period ending March 31, 2028.

AltaLink is regulated by the Alberta Utilities Commission ("AUC"), pursuant to
the Electric Utilities Act (Alberta), the Public Utilities Act (Alberta), the
Alberta Utilities Commission Act (Alberta) and the Hydro and Electric Energy
Act (Alberta). The AUC is an independent quasi-judicial agency, which
regulates and oversees Alberta's electricity transmission sector with broad
authority that may impact many of AltaLink's activities, including its
tariffs, rates, construction, operations and financing. Under the Electric
Utilities Act, AltaLink prepares and files applications with the AUC for
approval of tariffs to be paid by the Alberta Electric System Operator
("AESO") for the use of its transmission facilities, and the terms and
conditions governing the use of those facilities. The AESO is an independent
system operator in Alberta, Canada that oversees Alberta's integrated
electrical system ("AIES") and wholesale electricity market. The AESO is
responsible for directing the safe, reliable and economic operation of the
AIES, including long-term transmission system planning.

The natural gas pipelines are subject to regulation by various federal and
state agencies. The natural gas pipeline and storage operations of BHE GT&S,
Northern Natural and Kern River are regulated by the FERC pursuant to the
Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. Under this authority,
the FERC regulates, among other items, (a) rates, charges, terms and
conditions of service; (b) the construction and operation of interstate
pipelines, storage and related facilities, including the extension, expansion
or abandonment of such facilities; and (c) the construction and operation of
liquefied natural gas export/import facilities. Interstate natural gas
pipeline companies are also subject to regulations administered by the Office
of Pipeline Safety within the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration, an agency of the DOT. Federal pipeline safety regulations are
issued pursuant to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended,
which establishes safety requirements in the design, construction, operation
and maintenance of interstate natural gas pipeline facilities.

K-9

* * *

Environmental Matters

BHE and its energy businesses are subject to federal, state, local and foreign
laws and regulations regarding air quality, climate change, emissions
performance standards, water quality, coal ash disposal and other
environmental matters that have the potential to impact current and future
operations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these
laws and regulations, such as the Federal Clean Air Act, provide regulators
with the authority to levy substantial penalties for noncompliance, including
fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions.

The Federal Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations impacting air
emissions, provides a framework for protecting and improving the nation's air
quality and controlling sources of air emissions. These laws and regulations
continue to be promulgated and implemented and will impact the operation of
BHE's generating facilities and require them to reduce emissions at those
facilities to comply with the requirements. In addition, the potential
adoption of state or federal clean energy standards, which include low-carbon,
non-carbon and renewable electricity generating resources, may also impact
electricity generators and natural gas providers.

In December 2015, an international agreement was negotiated by 195 nations to
create a universal framework for coordinated action on climate change in what
is referred to as the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement reaffirms the goal
of limiting global temperature increase well below 2 degrees Celsius, while
urging efforts to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius and reaching a
global peak of GHG emissions as soon as possible to achieve climate neutrality
by mid-century; establishes commitments by all parties to make nationally
determined contributions and pursue domestic measures aimed at achieving the
commitments; commits all countries to submit emissions inventories and report
regularly on their emissions and progress made in implementing and achieving
their nationally determined commitments; and commits all countries to submit
new commitments every five years, with the expectation that the commitments
will be more aggressive in reducing GHG emissions. In the context of the Paris
Agreement, the U.S. agreed to reduce GHG emissions by 26% to 28% from 2005
levels by 2025. The Paris Agreement formally became effective on November 4,
2016; however, the U.S. completed its withdrawal from the Paris Agreement on
November 4, 2020. President Biden accepted the terms of the climate agreement
on January 20, 2021, and the U.S. completed its reentry on February 19, 2021.
New commitments to the Paris Agreement were announced in April 2021, with the
U.S. pledging to cut its overall GHG emissions by 50% to 52% from 2005 levels
by 2030 and to reach 100% carbon pollution-free electricity by 2035.
Increasingly, states are adopting legislation and regulations to reduce GHG
emissions, and local governments and consumers are seeking increasing amounts
of clean and renewable energy.

On June 19, 2019, the EPA repealed the Clean Power Plan and issued the
Affordable Clean Energy rule. In the Affordable Clean Energy rule, the EPA
determined that the best system of emissions reduction for existing coal
fueled power plants is heat rate improvements and identified a set of
candidate technologies and measures that could improve heat rates. Measures
taken to meet the standards of performance must be achieved at the source
itself. On January 19, 2021, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the
Affordable Clean Energy rule in its entirety. In October 2021, the U.S.
Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal of that decision. Arguments in the case
were held in February 2022 and on June 30, 2022, the U.S. Supreme Court issued
its decision regarding the scope of the EPA's authority to regulate GHG
emissions under the Clean Air Act. The U.S. Supreme Court held that the
"generation shifting" approach in the Clean Power Plan exceeded the powers
granted to the EPA by Congress, although the court did not address whether the
EPA may only adopt measures applied at the individual source as it did in the
Affordable Clean Energy rule. The Biden administration plans to propose a
replacement to the Clean Power Plan and Affordable Clean Energy rule by April
2023.

In November 2021, the EPA proposed rules that would reduce methane emissions
from both new and existing sources in the oil and natural gas industry. The
proposals would expand and strengthen emission reduction requirements for new,
modified and reconstructed oil and natural gas sources and would require
states to reduce methane emissions from existing sources nationwide. The EPA
issued a supplemental proposal in November 2022 to further strengthen emission
requirements and intends to finalize the rules by fall 2023.

BHE and its energy subsidiaries continue to focus on delivering reliable,
affordable, safe and clean energy to its customers and on actions to mitigate
its GHG emissions. BHE's primary source of GHG emissions is the generation of
electricity from its power plants that are fueled by coal or natural gas. In
managing its electricity generation, BHE works with its regulators to protect
the energy and economic needs of customers by considering costs, reliability
and sources of electric generation. Over the years, BHE has invested heavily
in owned wind, solar and geothermal generation, with cumulative investments of
$31.6 billion through 2022 and has retired 16 coal generation units. As a
result, as of December 31, 2022, BHE reduced its annual GHG emissions by more
than 27% as compared to 2005 levels. BHE plans to continue investing in wind,
solar and other low-carbon generation in the future and to retire an
additional 16 coal generation units between 2023 and 2030 in a reliable and
cost-effective manner, thereby achieving a 50% reduction in GHG emissions from
2005 levels in 2030.

K-10

* * *

Non-Energy Businesses

HomeServices of America, Inc. ("HomeServices") is a residential real estate
brokerage firm in the U.S. In addition to providing traditional residential
real estate brokerage services, HomeServices offers other integrated real
estate services, including mortgage originations and mortgage banking, title
and closing services, insurance, home warranties, relocation services and
other home-related services. It operates under 55 brand names with
approximately 45,000 real estate agents in nearly 930 brokerage offices in 33
states and the District of Columbia.

HomeServices' franchise network currently includes approximately 300
franchisees and over 1,500 brokerage offices with nearly 51,000 real estate
agents under two brand names, primarily in the U.S. In exchange for certain
fees, HomeServices provides the right to use the Berkshire Hathaway
HomeServices or Real Living brand names and other related service marks, as
well as providing orientation programs, training and consultation services,
advertising programs and other services.

HomeServices' principal sources of revenue are dependent on residential real
estate sales, which are generally higher in the second and third quarters of
each year. This business is highly competitive and subject to general real
estate market conditions.

Manufacturing Businesses

Berkshire's numerous and diverse manufacturing subsidiaries are grouped into
three categories: (1) industrial products, (2) building products and (3)
consumer products. Berkshire's industrial products businesses manufacture
components for aerospace and power generation applications, specialty
chemicals, metal cutting tools, and a variety of other products primarily for
industrial use. The building products group produces prefabricated and site-
built residential homes, flooring products, insulation, roofing and engineered
products, building and engineered components, paint and coatings and bricks
and masonry products. The consumer products group manufactures and distributes
recreational vehicles, batteries, and various apparel, footwear and other
products. Information concerning the major activities of these three groups
follows. Berkshire's manufacturing businesses employed approximately 191,000
people at the end of 2022.

Industrial products

Precision Castparts

Precision Castparts Corp. ("PCC"), based in Lake Oswego, Oregon, manufactures
complex metal components and products, provides high-quality investment
castings, forgings, fasteners/fastener systems and aerostructures for critical
aerospace and power and energy applications. PCC also manufactures investment
castings and forgings for general industrial, armament, medical and other
applications; nickel and titanium alloys in all standard mill forms from large
ingots and billets to plate, foil, sheet, strip, tubing, bar, rod, extruded
shapes, rod-in-coil, wire and welding consumables, as well as cobalt alloys,
for the aerospace, chemical processing, oil and gas, pollution control and
other industries; fasteners for automotive and general industrial markets;
specialty alloys for the investment casting and forging industries; heat
treating and destructive testing services for the investment cast products and
forging industries; grinder pumps and affiliated components for low-pressure
sewer systems; critical auxiliary equipment and gas monitoring systems for the
power generation industry; and metalworking tools for the fastener market and
other applications.

Investment casting technology involves a multi-step process that uses ceramic
molds in the manufacture of metal components with more complex shapes, closer
tolerances and finer surface finishes than parts manufactured using other
methods. PCC uses this process to manufacture products for aircraft engines,
industrial gas turbine and other aeroderivative engines, airframes, medical
implants, armament, unmanned aerial vehicles and other industrial
applications. PCC also manufactures high temperature carbon and ceramic
composite components, including ceramic matrix composites, for use in next-
generation aerospace engines.

PCC uses forging processes to manufacture components for the aerospace and
power generation markets. PCC manufactures high-performance, nickel-based
alloys, as well as titanium alloys and products. PCC's nickel-based alloys are
used to produce forged components and investment castings for aerospace and
non-aerospace applications in such markets as oil and gas, chemical processing
and pollution control. PCC's titanium products are used to manufacture
components for the commercial and military aerospace, power generation,
energy, medical, and industrial end markets.

PCC is also a leading developer and manufacturer of highly engineered
fasteners, fastener systems, aerostructures and precision components,
primarily for critical aerospace applications. These products are produced for
the aerospace and power and energy markets, as well as for construction,
automotive, heavy truck, farm machinery, mining and construction equipment,
shipbuilding, machine tools, medical equipment, appliances and recreation
markets.

K-11

* * *

PCC has several significant customers, including aerospace original equipment
manufacturers ("OEMs") (Boeing and Airbus) and aircraft engine manufacturer
suppliers (General Electric, Rolls Royce and Pratt &Whitney). The majority of
PCC's sales are from customer orders or demand schedules pursuant to long-term
agreements. Contractual terms may provide for termination by the customer,
subject to payment for work performed. PCC typically does not experience
significant order cancellations, although periodically it receives requests
for delays in delivery schedules.

The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic produced significant adverse effects on
the PCC aerospace business in 2020 and 2021. The sudden and material
reductions in air travel led to aircraft build rate reductions and customer
destocking at extraordinary rates. Further, production delays in Boeing's 737
MAX and 787 programs during this time also adversely impacted PCC over the
past three years.

While commercial air travel increased in both the U.S. and international
markets during 2022, traffic remains below pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels,
especially for international routes. Further recovery could be uneven, in the
event of new COVID-19 variant developments and related travel restrictions, as
well as from the changes in supply chain conditions, including the
availability of workers. Commercial aircraft delivery rates by OEMs of narrow-
body aircraft have rebounded since the onset of the pandemic. However,
deliveries of wide-body aircraft remain relatively low, in part attributable
to the pause in the Boeing 787 program, which resumed deliveries in the third
quarter of 2022. Long-term industry forecasts continue to show growth and
strong demand for air travel and aerospace products.

PCC is subject to substantial competition in all of its markets. Components
and similar products may be produced by competitors, who use either the same
types of manufacturing processes as PCC or other processes. Although PCC
believes its manufacturing processes, technology and experience provide its
customers advantages, such as high quality, competitive prices and physical
properties that often meet more stringent demands, alternative forms of
manufacturing can be used to produce many of the same components and products.
Nevertheless, PCC is a leading supplier in most of its principal markets.
Several factors, including long-standing customer relationships, technical
expertise, state-of-the-art facilities and dedicated employees, aid PCC in
maintaining competitive advantages.

Several raw materials used in PCC products, including certain metals such as
nickel, titanium, cobalt, tantalum and molybdenum, are found in only a few
parts of the world. These metals are required for the alloys used in
manufactured products. The availability and costs of these metals may be
influenced by private or governmental cartels, changes in world politics,
labor relations between the metal producers and their workforces and
inflation.

PCC is currently subject to various federal, state and foreign environmental
laws concerning, among other things, water discharges, air emissions, waste
management, toxic materials use reduction and environmental cleanup. Laws and
regulations continue to evolve, and it is reasonably possible that
environmental standards will become more stringent in the future, particularly
under air quality and water quality laws and standards related to climate
change, including reporting of GHG emissions. As a result, it is also
reasonably likely that PCC will be regularly required to make additional
expenditures, including capital expenditures, which could be significant,
relating to environmental matters.

Lubrizol

The Lubrizol Corporation ("Lubrizol"), headquartered in Wickliffe, Ohio, is a
specialty chemical and performance materials company that manufactures
products and supplies technologies for the global transportation, industrial
and consumer markets. Lubrizol currently operates two business segments:
Lubrizol Additives, which produces engine lubricant additives, driveline
lubricant additives and industrial specialties products; and Lubrizol Advanced
Materials, which includes engineered materials (engineered polymers and
performance coatings) and life sciences (beauty and personal care, and health
and home care solutions).

Lubrizol Additives' products are used in a broad range of applications
including engine oils, transmission fluids, gear oils, specialty driveline
lubricants, fuels, metalworking fluids and compressor lubricants for
transportation and industrial applications. Lubrizol Advanced Materials'
products are used in many different types of applications including beauty,
personal care, home care, over-the-counter pharmaceuticals, medical devices,
performance coatings, sporting goods, plumbing and fire sprinkler systems.
Lubrizol is an industry leader in many of the markets in which it competes,
and its principal lubricant additives competitors are Infineum International
Ltd., Chevron Oronite Company and Afton Chemical Corporation. Lubrizol
Advanced Materials' businesses compete in many markets with a variety of
competitors in each product line.

With its considerable patent portfolio, Lubrizol uses its technological
leadership position and applies its science capabilities, formulation know-how
and market expertise in product development to improve the demand, quality and
value of its solutions. Lubrizol also leverages its scientific and
applications knowledge to meet and exceed customer performance and
sustainability requirements. While Lubrizol typically has patents that expire
each year, it invests resources to protect its intellectual property and to
develop or acquire innovative products for the markets it serves. Lubrizol
uses many specialty and commodity chemical raw materials in its manufacturing
processes. Raw materials are primarily feedstocks derived from petroleum and
petrochemicals and, generally, are obtainable from several sources. The
materials that Lubrizol chooses to purchase from a single source typically are
subject to long-term supply contracts to ensure supply reliability.

K-12

* * *

Lubrizol operates its business on a global basis through more than 100
offices, laboratories, production facilities and warehouses on six continents,
the most significant of which are North America, Europe, Asia and South
America. Lubrizol markets its products worldwide through direct sales, sales
agents and distributors. Lubrizol's customers principally consist of major
global and regional oil companies and industrial and consumer products
companies. Some of Lubrizol's largest customers also may be suppliers. During
2022, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of Lubrizol's
consolidated revenues. In recent years, the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain
disruptions, severe weather and fires at certain Lubrizol facilities affected
the availability of raw materials and fulfillment of customer orders and
otherwise disrupted Lubrizol's operations.

Lubrizol expends significant capital to ensure the safety of its employees and
the communities where it operates, as well as delivering on its commitments to
operational excellence and cybersecurity. Lubrizol also makes significant
capital investments to ensure reliable supply and compliance with regulations
governing its operations, while reducing their environmental footprint.

Lubrizol is subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws to protect the
environment, limit manufacturing waste and emissions, ensure product and
employee safety and regulate trade. While the company believes that its
policies, practices and procedures are designed to limit the associated risks
and consequent financial liability, the operation of chemical manufacturing
plants entails inherent environmental, safety and other risks, and significant
capital expenditures, costs or liabilities could be incurred in the future.

IMC International Metalworking Companies

IMC International Metalworking Companies ("IMC") is one of the three largest
multinational manufacturers of consumable precision carbide metal cutting
tools for applications in a broad range of industrial end markets. IMC's
principal brand names include ISCAR®, TaeguTec®, Ingersoll®, Tungaloy®,
Unitac®, UOP®, It.te.di®, Qutiltec®, Tool--Flo®, PCT®, IMCO® and BSW. IMC's
primary manufacturing facilities are located in Israel, the U.S., South Korea,
Japan, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, India and China.

IMC has five primary product lines: milling tools, gripping tools,
turning/thread tools, drilling tools and tooling. The main products are split
within each product line between consumable cemented tungsten carbide inserts
and steel tool holders. Inserts comprise a major portion of IMC's sales and
earnings. Metal cutting inserts are used by industrial manufacturers to cut
metals and are consumed during their use in cutting applications. IMC
manufactures hundreds of types of highly engineered inserts within each
product line that are tailored to maximize productivity and meet the technical
requirements of customers. IMC's staff of scientists and engineers
continuously develop and innovate products that address end user needs and
requirements.

IMC's global sales and marketing network operates in nearly every major
manufacturing center around the world, staffed with highly skilled engineers
and technical personnel. IMC's customer base is very diverse, with its primary
customers being large, multinational businesses in the automotive, aerospace,
engineering and machinery industries. IMC operates a regional central
warehouse system with locations in Israel, the U.S., Belgium, Korea, Japan and
China. Additional small quantities of products are maintained at local IMC
sales offices to provide on-time customer support and inventory management.

IMC competes in the metal cutting tools segment of the global metalworking
tools market. The segment includes hundreds of participants who range from
small, private manufacturers of specialized products for niche applications
and markets to larger, global multinational businesses (such as Sandvik and
Kennametal, Inc.) with a wide assortment of products and extensive
distribution networks. Other manufacturing companies such as Kyocera,
Mitsubishi, Sumitomo, Ceratizit and Korloy also play a significant role in the
cutting tool market.

Cemented tungsten carbide powder is the main raw material used in
manufacturing cutting tools. Most of IMC's insert products are made from
tungsten. While supplies are currently adequate, a significant disruption or
constraints in production processing facilities could cause reduced
availability and increased prices.

IMC is committed to following and complying with all government and
environmental rules, regulations and requirements and applicable laws. IMC
considers environmental preservation and pollution prevention as important
factors in all operations and activities. IMC production facilities are built
with the highest standards and follow all applicable regulations.

K-13

* * *

Marmon

Marmon Holdings, Inc. ("Marmon"), headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, is a
global industrial organization comprising eleven diverse business groups and
more than 100 autonomous manufacturing and service businesses. Marmon's
manufacturing and service operations are conducted at approximately 400
manufacturing, distribution and service facilities located primarily in the
U.S., as well as 18 other countries worldwide. Marmon's business groups are as
follows.

Foodservice Technologies manufactures beverage dispensing and cooling
equipment, hot and cold food preparation and holding equipment and related
products for restaurants, global brand owners and other foodservice providers.
Operations are based in the U.S. with manufacturing facilities in the U.S.,
Mexico, China, Czech Republic and Italy. Products are sold primarily
throughout the U.S., Europe and Asia.

Water Technologies manufactures water treatment equipment for residential,
commercial and industrial applications worldwide. Operations are based
primarily in the U.S., Canada, China, Singapore, India and Poland with
business centers located in Belgium, France, Germany, the U.K. and Italy.

Transportation Products serves the automotive, heavy-duty highway
transportation and aerospace industries with precision-molded plastic
components; fastener thread solutions; metal tubing; auto aftermarket
transmission and chassis products; platform and lowbed trailers; and truck and
trailer components. Operations and business are conducted primarily in the
U.S., Mexico, Canada, Europe and Asia.

Retail Solutions provides retail environment design services; in-store digital
merchandising, dispensing and display fixtures; shopping, material handling
and security carts. Operations and business are conducted in the U.S., the
U.K. and Czech Republic.

Metal Services provides specialty metal pipe, tubing and related value-added
services to customers across a broad range of industries. Operations are based
in the U.S., Canada and Mexico and business is conducted primarily in those
countries.

Electrical produces electrical wire for use in residential and commercial
buildings, and specialty wire and cable for use in energy, transit, aerospace,
defense, communication and other industrial applications. Operations are based
in the U.S., Canada, India and England. Business is conducted globally and
primarily in the U.S., Canada, India, the U.K., U.A.E. and China.

Plumbing & Refrigeration supplies copper tubing and copper, brass, aluminum
and stainless-steel fittings and components for the plumbing, heating,
ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) and refrigeration markets; custom
coils, ducting, air handling units and heat pipe for the HVAC market; HVAC
systems and structures for military, nuclear and medical markets and aluminum
and brass forgings for many commercial and industrial applications. Business
and operations are conducted primarily in the U.S., Canada and the U.K.

Industrial Products supplies construction fasteners; masonry and stone
anchoring systems used in commercial construction; two component polymer
products for anchoring, bonding and repair applications, gloves and other
protective wear; gear drives, gearboxes, fan and pump drives for various
markets; wind machines for agricultural use; wheels, axles and gears for rail,
mining and other applications; lighting products for industrial and mining;
and equipment for the manufacture and assembly of lead acid batteries.
Operations are primarily based in the U.S., the U.K., Canada and China and
business is conducted in those countries.

Rail & Leasing manufactures, leases and maintains railcars; leases intermodal
tank containers; manufactures mobile railcar movers; provides in-plant rail
switching and loading services; performs track construction and maintenance;
and manufactures steel tank heads and cylinders.

Union Tank Car Company ("UTLX") is the largest component of the Rail & Leasing
group and is a leading designer, builder and full-service lessor of railroad
tank cars and other specialized railcars. Together with its Canadian affiliate
Procor, UTLX owns a fleet of approximately 120,000 railcars for lease to
customers in chemical, petrochemical, energy and agricultural/food industries.
UTLX manufactures tank cars in the U.S. and performs railcar maintenance
services at more than 100 locations across North America.

UTLX has a diversified customer base, both geographically and across
industries. UTLX, while subject to cyclicality and significant competition in
most of its markets, competes by offering a broad range of high-quality
products and services targeted at its niche markets. Railcars are typically
leased for multiple-year terms and most of the leases are renewed upon
expiration. Due to selective ongoing capital investment, utilization rates
(the number of railcars on lease as a percentage of the total fleet) of the
railcar fleet are generally high.

Intermodal tank containers are leased through EXSIF Worldwide. EXSIF is a
leading international lessor of intermodal tank containers with a fleet of
approximately 74,000 units, primarily serving chemical producers and logistics
operators. In May 2022, EXSIF exited its Russia business, which resulted in
the sale of approximately 7,300 intermodal tank containers.

K-14

* * *

Crane Services is a provider of mobile cranes and operators in North America
and Australia with a combined fleet of approximately 1,100 cranes, primarily
serving the energy, mining, petrochemical and infrastructure markets. Cranes
are leased on either a fully operated and maintained service basis or on an
equipment-only basis. The Crane Services group is subject to customer
seasonality, with typical concentration of volume in the warmer months.

Medical develops, manufactures and distributes a wide range of innovative
medical devices in the extremities fixation, craniomaxillofacial surgery,
neurosurgery, biologics, aesthetics and powered instruments markets. The
group's leading-edge medical technology and products are used globally to help
improve patient care and outcomes. Operations are based in the U.S., Europe
and China and business is conducted primarily in North and South America,
Europe, Asia and Australia.

Certain Marmon businesses, including the Rail and Medical groups, are subject
to government regulation and oversight. Marmon has numerous known
environmental matters which are subject to on-going monitoring and/or
remediation efforts. Marmon follows all federal, state and local environmental
regulations.

Other industrial products

CTB International Corp. ("CTB"), headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a
leading global designer, manufacturer and marketer of a wide range of
agricultural systems and solutions for preserving grain, producing poultry,
pigs and eggs, and for processing poultry, fish, vegetables and other foods.
CTB operates from facilities located around the globe and supports customers
through a worldwide network of independent distributors and dealers.

CTB competes with a variety of manufacturers and suppliers, including many
that offer only a limited number of the products offered by CTB, as well as a
few that offer products across several of CTB's product lines. Competition is
based on the price, value, reputation, quality and design of the products
offered and the customer service provided by distributors, dealers and
manufacturers of the products. CTB's leading brand names, distribution
network, diversified product line, product support and high-quality products
enable it to compete effectively. CTB manufactures its products primarily from
galvanized steel, steel wire, stainless steel and polymer materials. The
availability of these materials in recent years has been adequate.

LiquidPower Specialty Products Inc. ("LSPI"), headquartered in Houston, Texas,
is a global leader in the science of drag reduction application ("DRA")
technology by maximizing the flow potential of pipelines, increasing
operational flexibility and throughput capacity, and efficiencies for
customers. LSPI develops innovative flow improver solutions with customers in
over 20 countries on five continents, treating over 50 million barrels of
hydrocarbon liquids per day. LSPI's DRA offering is part of a comprehensive,
full-service solution that encompasses industry-leading technology, quality
manufacturing, technical support and consulting, a reliable supply chain,
injection equipment and field service. LSPI is subject to foreign, federal,
state and local laws to protect the environment and limit manufacturing waste
and emissions.

The Scott Fetzer companies are a group of businesses that manufacture,
distribute, service and finance a wide variety of products for residential,
industrial and institutional use. The industrial products group also includes
certain manufacturing subsidiaries of Alleghany acquired in October 2022. The
Alleghany businesses include the structural steel fabrication products
business conducted through W&W|AFCO Steel. Additionally, the Alleghany
businesses included certain other smaller manufacturers that primarily became
part of Marmon.

Building Products

Clayton

Clayton Homes, Inc. ("Clayton"), headquartered near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a
vertically integrated housing company offering traditional site-built homes
and off-site (factory) built housing, including modular, manufactured,
CrossMod and tiny homes. In 2022, Clayton delivered approximately 53,000 off-
site built and 11,750 site-built homes. Clayton also offers home financing and
insurance products and competes on price, service, location and delivery
capabilities.

All Clayton Built® off-site built homes are designed, engineered and assembled
in the U.S. As of December 2022, off-site backlog was $256 million, down 82%
from the prior year end. Clayton sells off-site built homes through
independent and company-owned home centers, realtors and subdivision channels.
Clayton considers its ability to offer financing to retail purchasers a factor
affecting the marketplace acceptance of its off-site built homes. Clayton's
financing programs utilize proprietary loan underwriting guidelines to
evaluate loan applicants.

Since 2015, Clayton's site-built division, Clayton Properties Group, has
expanded through the acquisition of nine builders across 18 states with over
310 subdivisions, supplementing the portfolio of housing products offered to
customers. Clayton's site-builders currently own and control approximately
70,000 homesites, with a home order backlog of approximately $1.4 billion as
of December 2022.

K-15

* * *

Historically, access to key housing inputs such as lumber, steel and resin
products has been adequate. During 2021 and the first half of 2022, the
availability and pricing of these and other inputs was volatile. Input
shortages coupled with reduced labor and subcontractor availability increased
the time needed to construct a home, increasing the levels of work-in-process
inventory. These constraints began to lessen in the latter half of 2022 due to
improved availability and pricing of key inputs, increased order cancellations
and lower overall demand for new home construction.

Clayton's building products business has benefited in recent years from the
low interest rate environment. However, interest rates in the U.S. increased
significantly during 2022, which contributed to slowing demand for new home
construction.

Clayton's home building business regularly makes capital and non-capital
expenditures with respect to compliance with federal, state and local
environmental regulations, primarily related to erosion control, permitting
and stormwater protection for site-built home subdivisions. The financing
business originates and services loans which are federally regulated by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, various state regulatory agencies and
reviewed by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the
Government National Mortgage Association and government-sponsored enterprises.

Shaw

Shaw Industries Group, Inc. ("Shaw"), headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is a
leading manufacturer and distributor of carpet, carpet tile, and hard surface
flooring products. Shaw designs and manufactures over 4,000 styles of tufted
carpet, wood and resilient flooring for residential and commercial use under
about 30 brand and trade names and under certain private labels. Soft and hard
surface products are available in a broad range of patterns, colors and
textures. Shaw's carpet manufacturing operations are fully integrated from the
processing of raw materials used to make fiber through to the finishing.
Shaw's flooring businesses are primarily in the U.S. and it also manufactures
in China and the U.K. and distributes carpet tile throughout Europe and
Southeast Asia. Shaw manufactures or distributes a variety of hardwood, wood
plastic composite (WPC), stone plastic composite (SPC), vinyl and laminate
floor products ("hard surfaces"). Shaw's Integrated Solutions business also
provides project management and installation services.

Shaw operates Shaw Sports Turf , Sawgrass and Southwest Greens International,
LLC, which provide synthetic sports turf, golf greens and landscape turf
products. Since 2021, Shaw's businesses include Watershed Geosynthetics, LLC,
which sells innovative and patented environmental solutions for utility, waste
management, erosion control and mining industries.

Shaw products are sold wholesale to over 46,000 retailers, distributors and
commercial users throughout the U.S., Canada, Mexico and the U.K. Products are
also exported to various overseas markets. Shaw's wholesale products are
marketed domestically by over 2,000 salaried and commissioned sales personnel
directly to retailers and distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw's
seven carpet and nine hard surface facilities, one sample full-service
distribution facility, three sample satellite locations and 30 redistribution
centers, along with centralized management information systems, enable it to
provide prompt and efficient delivery of its products to both its retail
customers and wholesale distributors.

Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from
nylon, polypropylene and polyester, as well as recycled materials. During
2022, Shaw processed approximately 89% of its requirements for carpet yarn in
its own yarn processing facilities. The availability of raw materials is
adequate, but costs are impacted by petro-chemical and natural gas price
changes. A significant portion of Shaw's soft-flooring raw materials derive
from recycled sources. Raw material cost changes are periodically factored
into selling prices to customers.

The soft floor covering industry is highly competitive with only a handful of
major competitors domestically. There are numerous manufacturers, domestically
and internationally, that are engaged in the hard surfaces flooring sector.
According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately 41% of the
total U.S. consumption of all flooring types. The principal competitive
measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and
service.

Johns Manville

Johns Manville Corporation ("JM"), headquartered in Denver, Colorado, is a
leading manufacturer and marketer of premium-quality products for building
insulation, mechanical and industrial insulation, commercial roofing and roof
insulation, as well as reinforcement fiberglass and technical nonwovens. JM
serves markets that include aerospace, automotive and transportation, air
handling, appliance, HVAC, pipe and equipment, air and liquid filtration,
waterproofing, building, flooring, interiors and wind energy. Fiberglass is
the basic material in many of JM's products, although JM also manufactures a
significant portion of its products with other materials to satisfy the
broader needs of its customers.

JM regards its patents and licenses as valuable; however it does not consider
any of its businesses to be materially dependent on any single patent or
license. JM operates over 40 manufacturing facilities in North America and
Europe and conducts research and development at its technical center in
Littleton, Colorado and at other facilities in the U.S. and Europe.

K-16

* * *

Fiberglass is made from earthen raw materials and recycled glass. JM's
products also contain materials other than fiberglass, including chemical
agents to bind many of its glass fibers and various chemical-based and
petrochemical-based materials used in roofing and other specialized products.
JM uses recycled material when available and suitable to satisfy the broader
needs of its customers. The raw materials used in these various products are
generally readily available in sufficient quantities from various sources to
maintain and expand its current production levels.

JM's operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local
environmental laws and regulations, which regulate or impose liability for the
discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and
disposal of hazardous substances and use of chemical substances. The most
relevant of the federal laws are the Federal Clean Air Act, the Clean Water
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
Act, which are administered by the EPA. Canadian and European regulatory
authorities have also adopted their own environmental laws and regulations. JM
continually monitors new and pending regulations and assesses their potential
impact on the business. JM's capital projects regularly address environmental
compliance and are generally incidental to other capital projects.

JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including
contractors, distributors, retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM
operates in highly competitive markets, with competitors comprising primarily
large global and national manufacturers and smaller regional manufacturers. JM
holds leadership positions in the key markets that it serves. JM's products
compete primarily on value, differentiation and customization, breadth of
product line, quality and service. Sales of JM's products are moderately
seasonal due to increases in construction activity that typically occur in the
second and third quarters of the calendar year.

MiTek

MiTek Industries, Inc. ("MiTek"), based in Chesterfield, Missouri, operates in
two separate building markets: residential and commercial. MiTek operates
worldwide with sales in over 100 countries and with manufacturing facilities
and/or sales/engineering offices located in 20 countries.

In the residential building market, MiTek is a leading supplier of engineered
connector products, construction hardware, engineering software and services,
and computer-driven manufacturing machinery to the truss component market of
the building components industry. MiTek's primary customers are component
manufacturers who manufacture prefabricated roof and floor trusses and wall
panels for the residential building market. MiTek also sells construction
hardware to commercial distributors and do-it-yourself retail stores.

A significant raw material used by MiTek is hot dipped galvanized sheet steel.
While supplies are presently adequate, variations in supply have historically
occurred, producing significant variations in cost and availability.

Benjamin Moore

Benjamin Moore & Co. ("Benjamin Moore"), headquartered in Montvale, New
Jersey, is one of North America's leading manufacturers of premium quality
residential, commercial and industrial maintenance coatings. Benjamin Moore is
committed to innovation and sustainable manufacturing practices. The Benjamin
Moore premium portfolio includes Aura®, Regal® Select, Ultra Spec®, ben®,
ADVANCE®, ARBORCOAT® and others. The Benjamin Moore diversified brands include
specialty and architectural paints from Coronado® and Insl-x®.

Benjamin Moore coatings are available through more than 8,000 independently
owned and operated paint, decorating and hardware retailers, including
approximately 3,800 Ace Hardware ("Ace") stores, throughout the U.S. and
Canada as well as 75 countries globally. Benjamin Moore became the preferred
paint supplier for the aforementioned Ace Stores in 2019 through an agreement
which affords these stores the opportunity to carry a full line of Benjamin
Moore products or a streamlined offering of certain branded products. As part
of the agreement, Benjamin Moore assumed responsibility for manufacturing
Clark+Kensington® and Royal®, as well as the balance of Ace's private label
paint brands.

Benjamin Moore also allows customers to directly order coatings or color
samples online or, for national accounts and government agencies, via its
customer information center, for delivery to the customer or a retailer near
the customer.

K-17

* * *

Benjamin Moore competes with numerous manufacturers, distributors and paint,
coatings and related products retailers. Product quality, product innovation,
breadth of product line, technical expertise, service and price determine the
competitive advantage. Competitors include other premium paint and decorating
stores, mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores,
hardware chains and manufacturer-operated direct outlets, such as Sherwin-
Williams Company, PPG Industries, Inc., The Home Depot, Inc. and Lowe's
Companies, Inc.

The most significant raw materials in Benjamin Moore products are titanium
dioxide, monomers, polymers and pigments. Historically, these materials have
been generally available, with pricing and availability subject to
fluctuation. However, Benjamin Moore experienced raw material constraints
concurrent with the COVID-19 pandemic. These constraints began to ease in the
second half of 2022, allowing for the return to normal production scheduling,
replenishment of overall finished goods inventory levels and the reduction of
customer order cancellations. Some limited constraints remain with alkyd raw
materials resulting in elevated cancellation quantities for orders with those
products. Benjamin Moore continually evaluates processes, including evaluating
raw material substitutions and sourcing from alternative vendors, to optimize
production capacity to meet future demand.

Benjamin Moore undertakes to comply with applicable regulations relating to
protection of the environment and workers' safety and Benjamin Moore products
meet or exceed environmental standards. Benjamin Moore has certain known past
environmental matters, which are subject to on-going monitoring and/or
remediation efforts.

Acme

Acme Brick Company ("Acme"), headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures
and distributes clay bricks (Acme Brick®) and concrete block (Featherlite). In
addition, Acme distributes numerous other building products of other
manufacturers, including floor and wall tile, wood flooring and other masonry
products. Products are sold primarily in the South Central and Southeastern
U.S. through company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products
primarily to homebuilders and masonry and general contractors.

Acme currently operates 12 clay brick manufacturing sites located in four
states and three concrete block facilities in Texas. The demand for Acme's
products is seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer weather months, and is
subject to the level of construction activity, which is cyclical. Acme also
owns and leases properties and mineral rights that supply raw materials used
in many of its manufactured products. Acme's raw materials supply is believed
to be adequate.

The brick industry is subject to the EPA Maximum Achievable Control Technology
Standards ("MACT"). As required under the 1990 Clean Air Act, the EPA
developed a list of source categories that require the development of National
Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, which are also referred to as
MACT Standards ("Rule"). Key elements of the MACT Rule include emission limits
established for certain hazardous air pollutants and acidic gases. Acme's
brick plants are in compliance with the current Rule.

Consumer Products

Recreational vehicles

Forest River, Inc. ("Forest River"), headquartered in Elkhart, Indiana, is a
manufacturer of recreational vehicles ("RV"), utility cargo trailers, buses
and pontoon boats with products sold in the U.S. and Canada through an
independent dealer network. Forest River has numerous manufacturing facilities
located in six states and is a leading manufacturer of RVs with numerous brand
names, including Forest River, Coachmen RV and Prime Time. Utility cargo
trailers are sold under a variety of brand names. Buses are sold under several
brand names, including Starcraft Bus. Pontoon boats are sold under the
Berkshire, South Bay and Trifecta brand names.

The RV industry is highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on
price, design, quality and service. The industry has consolidated over the
past several years and is currently concentrated in a few companies, the
largest of which had a market share of approximately 42% based on industry
data as of September 2022. Forest River held a market share of approximately
33% at that time. Forest River is subject to regulations of the National
Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, the safety standards for recreational
vehicles established by the U.S. Department of Transportation and similar laws
and regulations issued by the Canadian government. Forest River is a member of
the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association, a voluntary association of RV
manufacturers which promotes safety standards for RVs. Forest River believes
its products comply in all material respects with the standards that govern
its products.

K-18

* * *

Apparel and footwear

Fruit of the Loom Inc. ("FOL"), headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky, is
primarily a manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel, underwear,
casualwear, athletic apparel and sports equipment. Products under the Fruit of
the Loom® and JERZEES® labels are primarily sold in the mass merchandise, mid-
tier chains and wholesale markets. In the Vanity Fair Brands product line,
Vassarette®, Curvation® and Radiant® by Vanity Fair are sold in the mass
merchandise market, while Vanity Fair® and Lily of France® products are sold
to mid-tier chains and department stores. FOL also markets and sells athletic
apparel and sports equipment to team dealers and to sporting goods retailers
under the Russell Athletic® and Spalding® brands. Additionally, Spalding®
markets and sells sports equipment in the mass merchandise market and dollar
store channels.

FOL generally performs its own knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and
packaging for apparel. For the North American market, which is FOL's
predominant sales region, cloth manufacturing is primarily performed in
Honduras. Labor-intensive cutting, sewing and packaging operations are in
Central America, the Caribbean and Vietnam. For the European market, products
are either sourced from third-party contractors in Europe or Asia or sewn in
Morocco from textiles internally produced in Morocco. Bras, athletic
equipment, sporting goods and other athletic apparel lines are generally
sourced from third-party contractors located primarily in Asia.

U.S.-grown cotton fiber and U.S.-manufactured polyester fiber are the main raw
materials used in manufacturing FOL's products. Historically, fibers have been
purchased from a limited number of third parties, including one key supplier
that provided the majority of FOL's yarn spinning/raw material conversion
services. Supply chain disruptions in 2021 and 2022 caused FOL to utilize
alternative sources for these raw materials/services. FOL has since engaged an
additional supplier for a portion of FOL's yarn spinning/raw material
conversion services. FOL's markets are highly competitive, consisting of many
domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally
based upon product features, quality, customer service and price.

Garan Incorporated ("Garan"), headquartered in New York, New York designs,
manufactures, imports and sells apparel primarily for children, including
boys, girls, toddlers and infants. Products are sold under its own trademarks
Garanimals® and 365 Kids from Garanimals® and easy-peasy®, as well as customer
private label brands. Garan conducts its business through operating
subsidiaries located in the U.S., Central America and Asia. Garan's products
are sold through its distribution centers in the U.S. Fechheimer Brothers
Company ("Fechheimers") manufactures and distributes uniforms, principally for
the public service and safety markets, including police, fire, postal and
military markets. Fechheimers is based in Cincinnati, Ohio.

The BH Shoe Holdings Group, headquartered in Greenwich, Connecticut,
manufactures and distributes work, rugged outdoor and casual shoes and
western-style footwear under a number of brand names, including Justin, Tony
Lama®, Chippewa®, BØRN®, BØC®, Carolina®, EuroSofft, Sofft, Double-H Boots®,
Nursemates® and Comfortiva®. Brooks Sports, Inc., headquartered in Seattle,
Washington, markets and sells performance running footwear and apparel to
specialty and national retailers and directly to consumers under the Brooks®
brand. A significant volume of the shoes sold by Berkshire's shoe businesses
are manufactured or purchased from sources located outside the U.S. Products
are sold worldwide through a variety of channels including department stores,
footwear chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as
through company-owned retail stores.

Other consumer products

The Duracell Company ("Duracell"), headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, is a
leading manufacturer of high-performance alkaline and lithium coin batteries.
Duracell manufactures batteries in the U.S., Europe and China and provides a
network of worldwide sales and distribution centers. Duracell sells its
products to a diverse group of retailers and distributors across the globe.
There are several competitors in the battery manufacturing market with
Duracell holding an approximately 29% market share of the global alkaline
battery market. Management believes there are currently sufficient sources of
raw materials available, which are primarily steel, zinc, manganese and
nickel-based chemistries.

Albecca Inc. ("Albecca"), headquartered in Suwanee, Georgia, operates in the
U.S., Canada and 11 other countries, with products primarily under the Larson-
Juhl® name. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of
high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal
moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass and framing supplies. Complementary to
its framing products, Albecca offers art printing and fulfillment services.

K-19

* * *

Richline Group, Inc., headquartered in New York, New York, operates five
strategic business units: Richline Jewelry, Richline Digital, LeachGarner, Rio
Grande and Inverness. Each business unit is a manufacturer and/or distributor
of precious metal, non-precious metal, diamond and gem products to specific
target markets including large jewelry chains, department stores, shopping
networks, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and artisans as well as
certain global manufacturers and wholesalers in the medical, electronics and
aerospace industries.

The consumer products group also includes Jazwares, LLC and its subsidiaries
and affiliates, ("Jazwares"), acquired in October 2022 in connection with
Alleghany. Jazwares is a global toy company headquartered in Sunrise, Florida.

Service and Retailing Businesses

Service Businesses

Berkshire's service businesses provide grocery and foodservice distribution,
professional aviation training programs, shared aircraft ownership programs
and distribution of electronic components. Other service businesses include
franchising and servicing of quick service restaurants, media businesses
(television and information distribution), as well as logistics businesses.
Berkshire's service businesses employed approximately 55,000 people at the end
of 2022. Information concerning these activities follows.

McLane

McLane Company, Inc. ("McLane") provides wholesale distribution services in
all 50 states to customers that include convenience stores, discount
retailers, wholesale clubs, drug stores, military bases, quick service
restaurants and casual dining restaurants. McLane's major customers during
2022 included Walmart (approximately 15.5% of revenues); 7-Eleven
(approximately 14.2% of revenues); and Yum! Brands, (approximately 12.0% of
revenues). McLane's business model is based on a high volume of sales, rapid
inventory turnover and stringent expense controls. Operations are currently
divided into three business units: grocery distribution, foodservice
distribution and beverage distribution.

McLane's grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, maintains a
dominant market share within the convenience store industry and serves most of
the national convenience store chains and major oil company retail outlets.
Grocery operations provide products to approximately 48,500 retail locations
nationwide. McLane's grocery distribution unit operates 25 distribution
facilities in 20 states.

McLane's foodservice distribution unit, based in Carrollton, Texas, focuses on
serving the quick service and casual dining restaurant industry with high
quality, timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted through 47
facilities in 22 states. The foodservice distribution unit services
approximately 33,600 restaurants nationwide.

Through its subsidiaries, McLane also operates wholesale distributors of
distilled spirits, wine and beer. The beverage unit operates as Empire
Distributors and operations are conducted through 14 distribution centers in
Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Colorado. Empire Distributors services
approximately 27,600 retail locations in the southeastern U.S. and Colorado.

FlightSafety

FlightSafety International Inc. ("FlightSafety") is an industry leading
provider of professional aviation training services and flight simulation
products. FlightSafety and FlightSafety Textron Aviation Training, a joint
venture with Textron, provide high technology training to pilots, aircraft
maintenance technicians, flight attendants and dispatchers who operate and
support a wide variety of business, commercial and military aircraft. The
training is provided using a large fleet of advanced full flight simulators at
learning centers and training locations in the U.S., Australia, Brazil,
Canada, France, Japan, Singapore, Norway, South Africa and the U.K. Compliance
with applicable environmental regulations is an inherent requirement to
operate the facilities. The vast majority of the instructors, training
programs and flight simulators are qualified by the United States Federal
Aviation Administration ("FAA") and other aviation regulatory agencies around
the world.

FlightSafety is also a leader in the design and manufacture of full flight
simulators, visual systems, displays and other advanced technology training
devices. This equipment is used to support FlightSafety training programs and
is offered for sale to airlines and government and military organizations
around the world. Manufacturing facilities are located in Oklahoma, Missouri
and Illinois. FlightSafety strives to maintain and manufacture simulators and
develop courseware using state-of-the-art technology and invests in research
and development as it builds new equipment and training programs.

K-20

* * *

NetJets

NetJets Inc. ("NetJets") is the leader in private aviation services and
operates a large, diverse private aircraft fleet and offers a full range of
personalized private aviation solutions to meet and exceed the high standards
of its customers. NetJets' global headquarters is located in Columbus, Ohio.
NetJets' European operations are based in Lisbon, Portugal. The shared
ownership concept is designed to meet the travel needs of customers who
require the scale, flexibility and access of a large fleet of aircraft as
opposed to reliance on whole aircraft ownership. In addition, shared ownership
programs are available for corporate flight departments seeking to outsource
their general aviation needs or add capacity for peak periods and for others
that previously chartered aircraft.

NetJets' programs are focused on safety and service and are designed to offer
customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, predictable operating costs and
increased liquidity. NetJets' shared aircraft ownership programs permit
customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and
allows customers to utilize the aircraft for a specified number of flight
hours annually. In addition, NetJets offers prepaid flight cards and other
aviation solutions and services for aircraft management, customized aircraft
sales and acquisition, ground support and flight operation services under
several programs including NetJets Shares, NetJets Leases and the NetJets
Card Program.

NetJets is subject to the rules and regulations of the FAA, the Portuguese
Civil Aviation Authority and the European Union Aviation Safety Agency.
Regulations address aircraft registration, maintenance requirements, pilot
qualifications and airport operations, including flight planning and
scheduling as well as security issues and other matters. NetJets maintains
comprehensive training and development programs in compliance with regulatory
requirements for pilots, flight attendants, maintenance mechanics, and other
flight operations specialists, many of whom are represented by unions.

TTI

TTI, Inc. ("TTI"), headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, is a global specialty
distributor of passive, interconnect, electromechanical, discrete, and
semiconductor components used by customers in the manufacturing and assembling
of electronic products. TTI's customer base includes OEMs, electronic
manufacturing services, original design manufacturers and military and
commercial customers, as well as design and system engineers. TTI's
distribution agreements with the industry's leading suppliers allow it to
uniquely leverage its product cost and to expand its business by providing new
lines and products to its customers. TTI operates sales offices and
distribution centers from more than 100 locations throughout North America,
South America, Europe and Asia.

TTI services a variety of industries including telecommunications, medical
devices, computers and office equipment, military/aerospace, automotive and
industrial electronics. TTI's core customers include businesses in the design
through production stages in the electronic component supply chain, which
supports its high-volume business, and its Mouser subsidiary, which supports a
broader base of customers with lower volume purchases through internet-based
marketing.

Other services

XTRA Corporation ("XTRA"), headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading
transportation equipment lessor operating under the XTRA Lease® brand name.
XTRA manages a diverse fleet of approximately 89,000 units located at 47
facilities throughout the U.S. The fleet includes over-the-road and storage
trailers, chassis, temperature-controlled vans and flatbed trailers. XTRA is
one of the largest lessors (in terms of units available) of over-the-road
trailers in North America. Transportation equipment customers lease equipment
to cover cyclical, seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for
purchasing equipment. Therefore, as a provider of marginal capacity to its
customers, XTRA's utilization rates and operating results tend to be cyclical.
In addition, transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their
asset utilization and reduce capital expenditures. By maintaining a large
fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with a broad selection of equipment
and quick response times.

International Dairy Queen Inc. develops and services a worldwide system of
over 7,000 franchised restaurants operating primarily under the names DQ Grill
and Chill®, Dairy Queen® and Orange Julius® that offer various dairy desserts,
beverages, prepared foods and blended fruit drinks. Business Wire Inc.
("Business Wire") transmits full-text news releases, regulatory filings,
photos and other multimedia content to journalists, financial professionals,
investor services, regulatory authorities and the general public. Releases are
distributed globally via Business Wire's patented NX network. CORT Business
Services Corporation ("CORT") is a leading national provider of rental
furniture and related services in the "rent-to-rent" segment of the furniture
rental industry. CORT's primary revenue streams include furniture rental to
individuals, businesses, government agencies, the trade show and events
industry and retail sales of new and used furniture. WPLG, Inc. is an ABC
affiliate television broadcast station in Miami, Florida and Charter Brokerage
Holdings Corp. is a leading non-asset based third party logistics provider to
the petroleum and chemical industries. In connection with the Alleghany
acquisition, the services group includes IPS-Integrated Project Services, LLC,
a provider of a variety of services, including design and engineering, project
management, procurement, validation and consulting that are used in facilities
construction projects.

K-21

* * *

Retailing Businesses

Berkshire's retailing businesses include automotive, home furnishings and
several other operations that sell various consumer products. Berkshire's
retailing businesses employed approximately 26,000 people at the end of 2022.
Information regarding each of these operations follows.

Berkshire Hathaway Automotive

Berkshire Hathaway Automotive, Inc. ("BHA") is one of the largest automotive
retailers in the U.S., currently operating 106 new vehicle franchises through
83 dealerships located primarily in major metropolitan markets in the U.S. The
dealerships sell new and used vehicles, vehicle maintenance and repair
services, extended service contracts, vehicle protection products and other
aftermarket products. BHA also arranges financing for its customers through
third-party lenders. BHA operates 28 collision centers directly connected to
the dealerships' operations and owns and operates two auto auctions and an
automotive fluid maintenance products distributor.

Dealership operations are highly concentrated in the Arizona and Texas
markets, with approximately 75% of dealership-related revenues derived from
sales in these markets. BHA currently maintains franchise agreements with 27
different vehicle manufacturers, although it derives a significant portion of
its revenue from the Toyota/Lexus, General Motors, Ford/Lincoln,
Nissan/Infiniti and Honda/Acura brands. Approximately 90% of BHA's annual
revenues are from dealerships representing these manufacturers.

The retail automotive industry is highly competitive. BHA faces competition
from other large public and private dealership groups, as well as individual
franchised dealerships and competition via the Internet. Given the pricing
transparency available via the Internet, and the fact that franchised dealers
acquire vehicles from the manufacturers on the same terms irrespective of
volume, the location and quality of the dealership facility, customer service
and transaction speed are key differentiators in attracting customers.

BHA's overall relationships with the automobile manufacturers are governed by
framework agreements. The framework agreements contain provisions relating to
the management, operation, acquisition and ownership structure of BHA's
dealerships. Failure to meet the terms of these agreements could adversely
impact BHA's ability to acquire additional dealerships representing those
manufacturers. Additionally, these agreements contain limitations on the
number of dealerships from a specific manufacturer that may be owned by BHA.

Individual dealerships operate under franchise agreements with the
manufacturer, which grants the dealership entity a non-exclusive right to sell
the manufacturer's brand of vehicles and offer related parts and service
within a specified market area, as well as the right to use the manufacturer's
trademarks. The agreements contain various requirements and restrictions
related to the management and operation of the franchised dealership and
provide for termination of the agreement by the manufacturer or non-renewal
for a variety of causes. States generally have automotive dealership franchise
laws that provide substantial protection to the franchisee, and it is
difficult for a manufacturer to terminate or not renew a franchise agreement
outside of bankruptcy or with "good cause" under the applicable state
franchise law.

BHA also develops, underwrites and administers various vehicle protection
plans as well as life and accident and health insurance plans sold to
consumers through BHA's dealerships and third-party dealerships. BHA also
develops proprietary training programs and materials and provides ongoing
monitoring and training of the dealership's finance and insurance personnel.

Home furnishings retailing

The home furnishings businesses consist of Nebraska Furniture Mart Inc.
("NFM"), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings ("R.C. Willey"), Star Furniture Company
("Star") and Jordan's Furniture, Inc. ("Jordan's"). These businesses offer a
wide selection of furniture, bedding and accessories. In addition, NFM and
R.C. Willey sell a full line of major household appliances, electronics,
computers and other home furnishings and offer customer financing to
complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these
businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business
volume by offering significant value to their customers.

K-22

* * *

NFM operates its business from four retail complexes with almost 4.5 million
square feet of retail, warehouse and administrative facilities located in
Omaha, Nebraska, Clive, Iowa, Kansas City, Kansas and The Colony, Texas. NFM
also owns Homemakers Furniture located in Urbandale, Iowa, which has
approximately 600,000 square feet of retail, warehouse and administrative
space. NFM is the largest furniture retailer in each of these markets. R.C.
Willey, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, currently operates ten full-line retail
home furnishings stores and three distribution centers. These facilities
include approximately 1.3 million square feet of retail space with four stores
located in Utah, one store in Meridian, Idaho, three stores in Nevada (Las
Vegas and Reno) and two stores in the Sacramento, California area.

Jordan's operates a retail furniture business from seven locations with
approximately 890,000 square feet of retail space in stores located in
Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Maine and Connecticut. The retail
stores are supported by an 800,000 square foot distribution center in Taunton,
Massachusetts. Jordan's is the largest furniture retailer, as measured by
sales, in Massachusetts, Maine and New Hampshire. Jordan's is well known in
its markets for its unique store arrangements and advertising campaigns. Star
has operated home furnishings retail stores in Texas for many years. Star's
retail facilities currently include about 700,000 square feet of retail space
in 10 locations in Texas, including seven in Houston.

Other retailing

Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc. ("Borsheims") operates from a single store in
Omaha, Nebraska. Borsheims is a high-volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches,
crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. Helzberg's Diamond
Shops, LLC. ("Helzberg") is based in North Kansas City, Missouri, and operates
a chain of 170 retail jewelry stores in 34 states, which includes
approximately 400,000 square feet of retail space. Helzberg's stores are
located in malls, lifestyle centers, power strip centers and outlet malls, and
all stores operate under the name Helzberg Diamonds® or Helzberg Diamonds
Outlet®. The Ben Bridge Corporation ("Ben Bridge Jeweler"), based in Seattle,
Washington, operates 37 retail jewelry stores under two different brand names,
located primarily in major shopping malls in nine western states. Thirty-six
of its retail locations are upscale jewelry stores selling loose diamonds,
finished jewelry and high-end timepieces. One store is a Breitling concept
store, selling only Breitling timepieces.

See's Candy Shops, Incorporated ("See's") produces boxed chocolates and other
confectionery products with an emphasis on quality and distinctiveness in two
large kitchens in Los Angeles and South San Francisco and a facility in
Burlingame, California. See's operates approximately 250 retail and volume
saving stores located mainly in California and other Western states, as well
as over 125 seasonal locations. See's revenues are highly seasonal with
approximately half of its annual revenues earned in the fourth quarter.

The Pampered Chef, Ltd. ("Pampered Chef") is a premier direct seller of
distinctive high-quality kitchenware products with sales and operations in the
U.S., Canada, Germany, Austria and France and operations in China. Pampered
Chef's product portfolio consists of over 400 Pampered Chef® branded
kitchenware items in categories ranging from stoneware and cutlery to grilling
and entertaining. Pampered Chef's products are available through its sales
force of independent cooking consultants and online.

Oriental Trading Company ("OTC") is a leading multi-channel and online
retailer for fun-value-priced party supplies, seasonal products, arts and
crafts, toys and novelties, school supplies and educational games. OTC,
headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska, serves a broad base of nearly four million
customers annually, including consumers, schools, churches, non-profit
organizations, medical and dental offices and other businesses. OTC offers a
unique assortment of over 80,000 fun products emphasizing proprietary designs.
OTC operates both direct-to-consumer and business-to-business brands including
Oriental Trading®, Fun Express®, MindWare®, SmileMakers®, Morris Costumes® and
HalloweenExpress.com® and utilizes digital and print marketing along with
dedicated sales teams to promote online sales.

Detlev Louis Motorrad ("Louis"), headquartered in Hamburg, Germany, is a
leading retailer of motorcycle clothing and equipment in Europe. Louis carries
over 50,000 different store and private label products, mainly covering the
areas of clothing, technical equipment and leisure. Louis has over 80 stores
in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and the Netherlands as well as an online
business with online shops in various languages in Europe.

K-23

* * *

Pilot Travel Centers

Since October 2017, we have owned a 38.6% interest in Pilot Travel Centers,
LLC ("Pilot"), headquartered in Knoxville, Tennessee. Through December 31,
2022, we accounted for our investment in Pilot under the equity method. On
January 31, 2023, we acquired an additional 41.4% interest in Pilot and we
attained control of Pilot for financial reporting purposes as of that date.
Consequently, we will discontinue the use of the equity method and include
Pilot's financial statements in our Consolidated Financial Statements at that
date.

Pilot is the largest operator of travel centers in North America (primarily
under the names Pilot or Flying J) with more than 650 travel center locations
across 44 U.S. states and six Canadian provinces. Pilot also has over 150
retail locations in the U.S. and Canada where it sells diesel fuel through
various arrangements with third party travel centers. Pilot sold over 13
billion gallons of fuel in 2022 (primarily diesel and gasoline). Pilot has
approximately 25,500 employees.

Pilot's travel centers are generally located close to an interstate highway
and offer petroleum products, merchandise, fast food, and a variety of
services and amenities to consumers and professional truck drivers. While
Pilot's primary business is operating fuel and inside store travel centers, it
also enters into dealer agreements with existing travel centers where Pilot
procures and sells diesel fuel at these locations for a fee. Additionally,
Pilot operates large wholesale fuel and fuel marketing platforms in the U.S.
and operates a water hauling and disposal business in the oil fields sector.

The travel center industry is concentrated among a few large operators
(including Love's Travel Stops and TravelCenters of America), although there
are numerous independent operators that operate one to ten travel centers.
Pilot's top 10 customers for diesel sales account for less than 15% of total
diesel gallons sold by Pilot, while Pilot's top 10 fuel suppliers account for
less than 50% of gallons purchased by Pilot.

Pilot currently supplies approximately 1.5 billion gallons per year of low-
carbon fuels (renewable diesel, biodiesel and ethanol) and approximately 320
million gallons per year of diesel exhaust fluid. During 2022, Pilot entered a
partnership with General Motors Company to develop a nationwide electric
vehicle fast charger network of 2,000 charging stations in 500 U.S. locations
by 2026. Pilot also signed a letter of intent with Volvo during 2022 in a
partnership to develop a nationwide public charging network to support the
expansion of battery-powered electric trucks.

Pilot is subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to
the environment. These laws generally provide for control of pollutants
released into the environment and require responsible parties to undertake
remediation of hazardous waste disposal sites. Penalties may be imposed for
non-compliance. Certain assets (such as petroleum tanks, dispensers, and
disposal wells) impose retirement obligations.

Additional information with respect to Berkshire's businesses

Revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable to
Berkshire's reportable business segments are included in Note 25 to
Berkshire's Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding
Berkshire's investments in fixed maturity and equity securities is included in
Notes 3 and 4, respectively, to Berkshire's Consolidated Financial Statements.

Berkshire or a subsidiary owns 26.6% of the outstanding common stock of The
Kraft Heinz Company ("Kraft Heinz") and 21.4% of the outstanding Occidental
Petroleum Corporation ("Occidental") common stock. Kraft Heinz manufactures
and markets food and beverage products, including condiments and sauces,
cheese and dairy, meals, meats, refreshment beverages, coffee and other
grocery products. Occidental is an international energy company, including oil
and natural gas exploration, development and production, and chemicals
manufacturing businesses. Occidental's midstream businesses purchase, market,
gather, process, transport and store various oil, natural gas, carbon dioxide
and other products. Berkshire subsidiaries also own a 50% joint venture
interest in Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC. Information concerning these
investments is included in Note 5 to Berkshire's Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Berkshire maintains a website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com) where its
annual reports, certain corporate governance documents, press releases,
interim shareholder reports and links to its subsidiaries' websites can be
found. Berkshire's periodic reports filed with the SEC, which include Form
10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the
public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies of
these reports can be accessed at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov) and
indirectly through Berkshire's website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com).
Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of charge, upon written
request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3555 Farnam Street, Omaha, NE 68131,
Attn: Corporate Secretary.

K-24

* * *

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Berkshire and its subsidiaries (referred to herein as "we," "us," "our" or
similar expressions) are subject to certain risks and uncertainties in its
business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and
uncertainties that are presently unknown or are currently deemed immaterial
may also impair our business operations.

General Business Risks

Terrorist acts could hurt our operating businesses.

A cyber, biological, nuclear or chemical terrorist attack could produce
significant losses to our worldwide operations. Our business operations could
be adversely affected from such acts through the loss of human resources or
destruction of production facilities and information systems. We share the
risk with all businesses.

Cyber security risks

We rely on technology in virtually all aspects of our business. Like those of
many large businesses, certain of our information systems have been subject to
computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access, phishing efforts,
denial-of-service attacks and other cyber-attacks. We expect to be subject to
similar attacks in the future as such attacks become more sophisticated and
frequent. A significant disruption or failure of our technology systems could
result in service interruptions, safety failures, security events, regulatory
compliance failures, an inability to protect information and assets against
unauthorized users and other operational difficulties. Attacks perpetrated
against our systems could result in loss of assets and critical information
and expose us to remediation costs and reputational damage.

Although we have taken steps intended to mitigate these risks, including
business continuity planning, disaster recovery planning and business impact
analysis, a significant disruption or cyber intrusion at one or more of our
significant operations could adversely affect our results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, if we are unable to acquire,
develop, implement, adopt or protect rights around new technology, we may
suffer a competitive disadvantage, which could also have an adverse effect on
our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.

Cyber-attacks could further adversely affect our ability to operate
facilities, information technology and business systems or compromise
confidential customer and employee information. Political, economic, social or
financial market instability or damage to or interference with our operating
assets, customers or suppliers from cyber-attacks may result in business
interruptions, lost revenues, higher commodity prices, disruption in fuel
supplies, lower energy consumption, unstable markets, increased security,
repair or other costs, or may materially adversely affect us in ways that
cannot be predicted at this time. Any of these risks could materially affect
our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, instability in the financial
markets resulting from terrorism, sustained or significant cyber-attacks or
war could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital.
We share these risks with all businesses.

We are dependent on a few key people for our major investment and capital
allocation decisions.

Major investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made
by Warren E. Buffett, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive
Officer, age 92, in consultation with Charles T. Munger, Vice Chairman of the
Board of Directors, age 99. In 2018, Berkshire's Board of Directors appointed
Mr. Gregory Abel as Vice Chairman of Berkshire's non-insurance operations and
Mr. Ajit Jain as Vice Chairman of Berkshire's insurance operations. Mr. Abel
and Mr. Jain each report directly to Mr. Buffett. Mr. Buffett continues to be
responsible for major capital allocation and investment decisions.

If for any reason the services of our key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett,
were to become unavailable, there could be a material adverse effect on our
operations. Should a replacement for Mr. Buffett be needed currently,
Berkshire's Board of Directors has agreed that Mr. Abel should replace Mr.
Buffett. The Board continually monitors this risk and could alter its current
view regarding a replacement for Mr. Buffett in the future. We believe that
the Board's succession plan, together with the outstanding managers running
our numerous and highly diversified operating units helps to mitigate this
risk.

We need qualified personnel to manage and operate our various businesses.

In our decentralized business model, we need qualified and competent
management to direct day-to-day business activities of our operating
subsidiaries and to manage changes in future business operations due to
changing business or regulatory environments. Our operating subsidiaries also
need qualified and competent personnel to execute business plans and serve
their customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Our inability to recruit,
train and retain qualified and competent managers and personnel could
negatively affect the operating results, financial condition and liquidity of
our subsidiaries and Berkshire as a whole.

K-25

* * *

Investments are unusually concentrated in equity securities and fair values
are subject to loss in value.

We concentrate a high percentage of the equity security investments of our
insurance subsidiaries in a relatively small number of issuers. A significant
decline in the fair values of our larger investments in equity securities may
produce a material decline in our consolidated shareholders' equity and our
consolidated earnings.

Since a large percentage of our equity securities are held by our insurance
subsidiaries, significant decreases in the fair values of these investments
will produce significant declines in the statutory surplus of our insurance
subsidiaries. Our large statutory surplus is a competitive advantage, and a
long-term material decline could have an adverse effect on our claims-paying
ability ratings and our ability to write new insurance business thus
potentially reducing our future underwriting profits.

Competition and technology may erode our business franchises and result in
lower earnings.

Each of our operating businesses face intense competition within markets in
which they operate. While we manage our businesses with the objective of
achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening
competitive advantages, many factors, including technological changes, may
erode or prevent the strengthening of competitive advantages. Accordingly, our
future operating results will depend to some degree on our operating units
successfully protecting and enhancing their competitive advantages. If our
operating businesses are unsuccessful in these efforts, our periodic operating
results in the future may decline.

Unfavorable general economic conditions may significantly reduce our operating
earnings and impair our ability to access capital markets at a reasonable
cost.

Our operating businesses are subject to normal economic cycles affecting the
general economy or the specific industries in which they operate. Significant
deteriorations of economic conditions, including significant inflation over a
prolonged period could produce a material adverse effect on one or more of our
significant operations. In addition, our utilities and energy businesses and
our railroad business regularly utilize debt as a component of their capital
structures and depend on having access to borrowed funds through the capital
markets at reasonable rates. To the extent that access to the capital markets
is restricted or the cost of funding increases, these operations could be
adversely affected.

Epidemics, pandemics or other similar outbreaks could hurt our operating
businesses.

The outbreak of epidemics, pandemics or other similar outbreaks in the future
may adversely affect our operations, including the value of our equity
securities portfolio. This may be due to closures or restrictions requested or
mandated by governmental authorities, disruption to supply chains and
workforce, reduction of demand for our products and services, credit losses
when customers and other counterparties fail to satisfy their obligations to
us, and volatility in global equity securities markets, among other factors.
We share most of these risks with all businesses.

Regulatory changes may adversely impact our future operating results.

Over time, in response to financial markets crises, global economic
recessions, and social and environmental issues, regulatory initiatives were
adopted in the United States and elsewhere. Such initiatives addressed, for
example, the regulation of banks and other major financial institutions, the
regulation of products and environmental and global-warming matters. These
initiatives impact all of our businesses, albeit in varying ways. Increased
regulatory compliance costs could have a significant negative impact on our
operating businesses, as well as on the businesses in which we have a
significant, but not controlling economic interests. We cannot predict whether
such initiatives will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.

Data privacy regulations have recently been enacted in various jurisdictions
in the U.S. and throughout the world. These regulations address numerous
aspects related to the security of personal information that is stored in our
information systems, networks and facilities. Failure to comply with these
regulations could result in reputational damage and significant penalties.

Climate change and the regulation of greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions may
impact our businesses.

The impacts of climate change and the regulation of GHG emissions could impact
our businesses to varying degrees. Climate change could cause or intensify
hurricanes, floods, wildfires, and other extreme weather events that may
increase physical risks to and impacts on our operations. An increase in the
frequency or intensity of extreme weather events and storms could impact the
physical assets of our non-insurance operations and could produce losses
affecting our businesses. Similarly, extreme weather events may produce losses
affecting our insurance operations as their primary business is to monitor,
assess and price risk, including climate-related risk, at an expected economic
profit to address the risk-transfer needs of their insurance customers.

Additional GHG policies, including legislation, may emerge that accelerate the
transition to a lower GHG emitting economy and could, in turn, increase costs
for our businesses to comply with those policies, including BNSF and BHE,
which combined represent more than 90% of Berkshire's direct emissions. The
failure to comply with new or existing regulations or reinterpretation of
existing regulations relating to climate change could have a significant
adverse effect on our financial results.

K-26

* * *

Risks unique to our regulated businesses

Our tolerance for risk in our insurance businesses may result in significant
underwriting losses.

When properly paid for the risk assumed, we have been and will continue to be
willing to assume more risk from a single event than any other insurer has
knowingly assumed. Accordingly, we could incur a significant loss from a
single catastrophe event resulting from a natural disaster or man-made
catastrophes such as terrorism or cyber-attacks. We employ various disciplined
underwriting practices intended to mitigate potential losses and attempt to
take into account all possible correlations and avoid writing groups of
policies from which pre-tax losses from a single catastrophe event might
aggregate in excess of $15 billion. However, despite our efforts, it is
possible that losses could manifest in ways that we do not anticipate and that
our risk mitigation strategies are not designed to address. Various provisions
of our policies, negotiated to limit our risk, such as limitations or
exclusions from coverage, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend, as
it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an
exclusion or limitation, or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring
the use of these exclusions and limitations. Our tolerance for significant
insurance losses may result in lower reported earnings in a future period.

The principal cost associated with the property and casualty insurance
business is claims. In writing property and casualty insurance policies, we
receive premiums today and promise to pay covered losses in the future.
However, it will take decades before all claims that have occurred as of any
given balance sheet date will be reported and settled. Although we believe
that liabilities for unpaid losses are adequate, we will not know whether
these liabilities or the premiums charged for the coverages provided were
sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Estimating insurance claim
costs is inherently imprecise. It is possible that significant claims may
emerge or develop in the future from the policies we have written in the past.
As industry practices and legal, social and other environmental conditions
change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may
emerge, including new or expanded theories of liability. These or other
changes could impose new financial obligations on us by extending coverage
beyond our underwriting intent. In some instances, these changes may not
become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance
contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of
liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for
many years after a contract is issued. Our estimated unpaid losses arising
under contracts covering property and casualty insurance risks are large ($143
billion at December 31, 2022), and a small percentage increase to those
liabilities can result in materially lower reported earnings.

Changes in regulations and regulatory actions can adversely affect our
operating results and our ability to allocate capital.

Our insurance businesses are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in
which we operate. Such regulations may relate to among other things, the types
of business that can be written, the rates that can be charged for coverage,
the level of capital that must be maintained, and restrictions on the types
and size of investments that can be made. Regulations may also restrict the
timing and amount of dividend payments to Berkshire by these businesses. U.S.
state insurance regulators and international insurance regulators are also
actively developing various regulatory mechanisms to address the regulation of
large internationally active insurance groups, including regulations
concerning group capital, liquidity, governance and risk management.
Accordingly, changes in regulations related to these or other matters or
regulatory actions imposing restrictions on our insurance businesses may
adversely impact our results of operations and restrict our ability to
allocate capital.

Our railroad business conducted through BNSF is also subject to a significant
number of laws and regulations with respect to rates and practices, taxes,
railroad operations and a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental and
other matters. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could
have a material adverse effect on BNSF's business. Governments may change the
legislative and/or regulatory framework within which BNSF operates, without
providing any recourse for any adverse effects that the change may have on the
business. Complying with legislative and regulatory changes may pose
significant operating and implementation risks and require significant capital
expenditures.

BNSF derives significant amounts of revenue from the transportation of energy-
related commodities, particularly coal. To the extent that changes in
government policies limit or restrict the usage of coal as a source of fuel in
generating electricity or alternate fuels, such as natural gas, or displace
coal on a competitive basis, revenues and earnings could be adversely
affected. As a common carrier, BNSF is also required to transport toxic
inhalation hazard chemicals and other hazardous materials. A release of
hazardous materials could expose BNSF to significant claims, losses, penalties
and environmental remediation obligations. Changes in the regulation of the
rail industry could negatively impact BNSF's ability to determine prices for
rail services and to make capital improvements to its rail network, resulting
in an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or
liquidity.

K-27

* * *

Our utilities and energy businesses operated under BHE are highly regulated by
numerous federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities in the
jurisdictions in which they operate. These laws and regulations are complex,
dynamic and subject to new interpretations or change. Regulations affect
almost every aspect of our utilities and energy businesses. Regulations
broadly apply and may limit management's ability to independently make and
implement decisions regarding numerous matters including: acquiring
businesses; constructing, acquiring, disposing or retiring of operating
assets; operating and maintaining generating facilities and transmission and
distribution system assets; complying with pipeline safety and integrity and
environmental requirements; setting rates charged to customers; establishing
capital structures and issuing debt; managing and reporting transactions
between our domestic utilities and our other subsidiaries and affiliates; and
paying dividends or similar distributions. Failure to comply with or
reinterpretations of existing regulations and new legislation or regulations,
such as those relating to air quality, climate change, emissions performance
standards, water quality, coal ash disposal and other environmental matters,
or changes in the nature of the regulatory process may have a significant
adverse impact on our financial results.

Our railroad business requires significant ongoing capital investment to
improve and maintain its railroad network so that transportation services can
be safely and reliably provided to customers on a timely basis. Our utilities
and energy businesses also require significant amounts of capital to
construct, operate and maintain generation, transmission and distribution
systems to meet their customers' needs and reliability criteria. System assets
may need to be operational for long periods of time in order to justify the
financial investment. The operational or financial failure of capital projects
may not be recoverable through rates that are charged to customers. Further, a
significant portion of costs of capital improvements may be funded through
debt issued by BNSF and BHE and their subsidiaries. Disruptions in debt
capital markets that restrict access to funding when needed could adversely
affect the results of operations, liquidity and/or capital resources of these
businesses.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Description of Properties

The properties used by Berkshire's business segments are summarized in this
section. Berkshire's railroad and utilities and energy businesses, in
particular, utilize considerable physical assets in their businesses.

Railroad Business--Burlington Northern Santa Fe

Through BNSF Railway, BNSF operates over 32,500 route miles of track
(excluding multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings) in 28 states, and
also operates in three Canadian provinces. BNSF owns over 23,000 route miles,
including easements, and operates over 9,000 route miles of trackage rights
that permit BNSF to operate its trains with its crews over other railroads'
tracks. As of December 31, 2022, the total BNSF Railway system, including
single and multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings, consisted of over
50,000 operated miles of track.

BNSF operates various facilities and equipment to support its transportation
system, including its infrastructure, locomotives and freight cars. It also
owns or leases other equipment to support rail operations, such as vehicles.
Support facilities for rail operations include yards and terminals throughout
its rail network, system locomotive shops to perform locomotive servicing and
maintenance, a centralized network operations center for train dispatching and
network operations monitoring and management, computers, telecommunications
equipment, signal systems and other support systems. Transfer facilities are
maintained for rail-to-rail as well as intermodal transfer of containers,
trailers and other freight traffic and include approximately 25 intermodal
hubs located across the system. BNSF owns or holds under non-cancelable leases
exceeding one year approximately 7,500 locomotives and 68,000 freight cars, in
addition to maintenance of way and other equipment.

In the ordinary course of business, BNSF incurs significant costs in repairing
and maintaining its properties. In 2022, BNSF recorded approximately $2
billion in repairs and maintenance expense.

K-28

* * *

Utilities and Energy Businesses--Berkshire Hathaway Energy

BHE's energy properties consist of the physical assets necessary to support
its electricity and natural gas businesses. Properties of BHE's electricity
businesses include electric generation, transmission and distribution
facilities, as well as coal mining assets that support certain of BHE's
electric generating facilities. Properties of BHE's natural gas businesses
include natural gas distribution facilities, interstate pipelines, storage
facilities, liquefied natural gas facilities, compressor stations and meter
stations. The transmission and distribution assets are primarily within each
of BHE's utility service territories. In addition to these physical assets,
BHE has rights-of-way, mineral rights and water rights that enable BHE to
utilize its facilities. Pursuant to separate financing agreements, the
majority of these properties are pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise
provide the security for the related subsidiary debt. BHE or its affiliates
own or have interests in the following types of operating electric generating
facilities at December 31, 2022:

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Energy Source

|

|

Entity

|

|

Location by Significance

|

|

Facility  
Net  
Capacity  
(MW) (1)

|

|

|

Net  
Owned  
Capacity  
(MW) (1)

|  
  
Wind

|

|

PacifiCorp, MEC, BHE Canada, BHE Montana and BHE Renewables

|

|

Iowa, Wyoming, Texas, Montana, Nebraska, Washington, California, Illinois,
Canada, Oregon and Kansas

|

|

|

12,282

|

|

|

|

12,282

|  
  
Natural gas

|

|

PacifiCorp, MEC, NV Energy, BHE Canada and BHE Renewables

|

|

Nevada, Utah, Iowa, Illinois, Washington, Wyoming, Oregon, Texas, New York,
Arizona and Canada

|

|

|

11,284

|

|

|

|

11,005

|  
  
Coal

|

|

PacifiCorp, MEC and NV Energy

|

|

Wyoming, Iowa, Utah, Nevada, Colorado and Montana

|

|

|

13,210

|

|

|

|

8,178

|  
  
Solar

|

|

MEC, NV Energy, Northern Powergrid and BHE Renewables

|

|

California, Australia, Texas, Arizona, Iowa, Minnesota and Nevada

|

|

|

2,120

|

|

|

|

1,972

|  
  
Hydroelectric

|

|

PacifiCorp, MEC and BHE Renewables

|

|

Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Utah, Hawaii, Montana, Illinois, California and
Wyoming

|

|

|

985

|

|

|

|

985

|  
  
Nuclear

|

|

MEC

|

|

Illinois

|

|

|

1,822

|

|

|

|

455

|  
  
Geothermal

|

|

PacifiCorp and BHE Renewables

|

|

California and Utah

|

|

|

377

|

|

|

|

377

|  
  
|

|

|

|

Total

|

|

|

42,080

|

|

|

|

35,254

|  
  
(1)

Facility Net Capacity in megawatts (MW) represents the lesser of nominal
ratings or any limitations under applicable interconnection, power purchase,
or other agreements for intermittent resources and the total net dependable
capability available during summer conditions for all other units. An
intermittent resource's nominal rating is the manufacturer's contractually
specified capability (in MW) under specified conditions. Net Owned Capacity
indicates BHE's ownership of Facility Net Capacity.

As of December 31, 2022, BHE's subsidiaries also have electric generating
facilities that are under construction in Nevada and Wyoming having total
Facility Net Capacity and Net Owned Capacity of 243 MW.

PacifiCorp, MEC and NV Energy own electric transmission and distribution
systems, including approximately 27,800 miles of transmission lines and
approximately 1,670 substations, and gas distribution facilities, including
approximately 28,200 miles of gas mains and service lines.

Northern Powergrid (Northeast) and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) operate an
electricity distribution network that includes approximately 17,040 miles of
overhead lines, approximately 43,400 miles of underground cables and
approximately 810 major substations. AltaLink's electricity transmission
system includes approximately 8,300 miles of transmission lines and
approximately 310 substations.

The BHE GT&S pipeline system consists of approximately 5,400 miles of natural
gas transmission, gathering and storage pipelines located in portions of
Maryland, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, South
Carolina and Georgia. Storage services are provided through the operation of
17 underground natural gas storage fields located in Pennsylvania, West
Virginia and New York. BHE GT&S also operates, as the general partner, and
owns a 25% limited partnership interest in one liquefied natural gas export,
import and storage facility in Maryland and operates and has ownership
interests in three smaller liquefied natural gas facilities in Alabama,
Florida and Pennsylvania.

K-29

* * *

Northern Natural's pipeline system consists of approximately 14,400 miles of
natural gas pipelines, including approximately 5,900 miles of mainline
transmission pipelines and approximately 8,500 miles of branch and lateral
pipelines. Northern Natural's end-use and distribution market area includes
points in Iowa, Nebraska, Minnesota, Wisconsin, South Dakota, Michigan and
Illinois and its natural gas supply and delivery service area includes points
in Kansas, Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico. Storage services are provided
through the operation of one underground natural gas storage field in Iowa,
two underground natural gas storage facilities in Kansas and two liquefied
natural gas storage peaking units, one in Iowa and one in Minnesota.

Kern River's system consists of approximately 1,400 miles of natural gas
pipelines, which extends from the system's point of origination in Wyoming
through the Central Rocky Mountains into California.

Other Segments

Significant physical properties used by Berkshire's other business segments
are summarized below:

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Number of Properties

|  
  
Business

|

|

Country

|

|

Locations

|

|

Property/Facility type

|

|

Owned

|

|

|

Leased

|  
  
Insurance:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
GEICO

|

|

U.S.

|

|

|

|

Offices and claims centers

|

|

|

10

|

|

|

|

107

|  
  
BHRG

|

|

U.S.

|

|

|

|

Offices

|

|

|

1

|

|

|

|

34

|  
  
|

|

Non-U.S.

|

|

Locations in 26 countries

|

|

Offices

|

|

|

1

|

|

|

|

51

|  
  
BH Primary

|

|

U.S.

|

|

|

|

Offices

|

|

|

5

|

|

|

|

52

|  
  
|

|

Non-U.S.

|

|

Locations in 7 countries

|

|

Offices

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

15

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Manufacturing

|

|

U.S.

|

|

|

|

Manufacturing facility

|

|

|

513

|

|

|

|

114

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

Offices/Warehouses

|

|

|

225

|

|

|

|

472

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

Retail/Showroom

|

|

|

230

|

|

|

|

205

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

Housing subdivisions

|

|

|

322

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
|

|

Non-U.S.

|

|

Locations in 63 countries

|

|

Manufacturing facility

|

|

|

176

|

|

|

|

107

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

Offices/Warehouses

|

|

|

109

|

|

|

|

465

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Service

|

|

U.S.

|

|

|

|

Training facilities/Hangars

|

|

|

11

|

|

|

|

88

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

Offices/Distribution

|

|

|

16

|

|

|

|

136

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

Production facilities

|

|

|

4

|

|

|

|

4

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

Leasing/Showroom/Retail

|

|

|

34

|

|

|

|

40

|  
  
|

|

Non-U.S.

|

|

Locations in 18 countries

|

|

Training facilities/Hangars

|

|

|

1

|

|

|

|

16

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

Offices/Distribution

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

39

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
McLane

|

|

U.S.

|

|

|

|

Distribution centers/Offices

|

|

|

63

|

|

|

|

28

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Retailing

|

|

U.S.

|

|

|

|

Offices/Warehouses

|

|

|

23

|

|

|

|

27

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

Retail/Showroom

|

|

|

141

|

|

|

|

466

|  
  
|

|

Non-U.S.

|

|

Locations in 6 countries

|

|

Retail/Offices/Warehouses

|

|

|

1

|

|

|

|

95

|  
  
Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties in a variety of legal actions that
routinely arise out of the normal course of business, including legal actions
seeking to establish liability directly through insurance contracts or
indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries.
Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. We do not believe
that such normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on our
financial condition or results of operations. Berkshire and certain of its
subsidiaries are also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which
assert or may assert claims or seek to impose fines and penalties. We
currently believe that any liability that may arise as a result of other
pending legal actions will not have a material effect on our consolidated
financial condition or results of operations.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

Information regarding the Company's mine safety violations and other legal
matters disclosed in accordance with Section 1503 (a) of the Dodd-Frank Reform
Act is included in Exhibit 95 to this Form 10-K.

K-30

* * *

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Following is a list of the Registrant's named executive officers:

|  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Name

|

|

Age

|

|

Position with Registrant

|

|

Since  
  
Warren E. Buffett

|

|

92

|

|

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

|

|

1970  
  
Charles T. Munger

|

|

99

|

|

Vice Chairman

|

|

1978  
  
Gregory E. Abel

|

|

60

|

|

Vice Chairman - Non-Insurance Operations

|

|

2018  
  
Ajit Jain

|

|

71

|

|

Vice Chairman - Insurance Operations

|

|

2018  
  
Marc D. Hamburg

|

|

73

|

|

Senior Vice-President - Chief Financial Officer

|

|

1992  
  
Each executive officer serves, in accordance with the by-laws of the
Registrant, until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the
next annual meeting of shareholders and until a successor is chosen and
qualified or until such executive officer sooner dies, resigns, is removed or
becomes disqualified.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this document as
well as some statements in periodic press releases and some oral statements of
Berkshire officials during presentations about Berkshire or its subsidiaries
are "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). Forward-looking statements include
statements which are predictive in nature, which depend upon or refer to
future events or conditions, or which include words such as "expects,"
"anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates" or similar
expressions. In addition, any statements concerning future financial
performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing
business strategies or prospects and possible future Berkshire actions, which
may be provided by management, are also forward-looking statements as defined
by the Act. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and
projections about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and
assumptions about Berkshire and its subsidiaries, economic and market factors
and the industries in which we do business, among other things. These
statements are not guarantees of future performance and we have no specific
intention to update these statements.

Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or
forecasted in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors. The
principal risk factors that could cause our actual performance and future
events and actions to differ materially from such forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, changes in market prices of our investments
in fixed maturity and equity securities; losses realized from derivative
contracts; the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events, such as an
earthquake, hurricane, act of terrorism or cyber-attack that causes losses
insured by our insurance subsidiaries and/or losses to our business
operations; the frequency and severity of epidemics, pandemics or other
outbreaks, that negatively affect our operating results and restrict our
access to borrowed funds through the capital markets at reasonable rates;
changes in laws or regulations affecting our insurance, railroad, utilities
and energy and finance subsidiaries; changes in federal income tax laws; and
changes in general economic and market factors that affect the prices of
securities or the industries in which we do business.

Part II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Security Holder Matters
and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information

Berkshire's Class A and Class B common stock are listed for trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, trading symbols: BRK.A and BRK.B, respectively.

Shareholders

Berkshire had approximately 1,300 record holders of its Class A common stock
and 18,700 record holders of its Class B common stock at February 13, 2023.
Record owners included nominees holding at least 334,000 shares of Class A
common stock and 1,297,000,000 shares of Class B common stock on behalf of
beneficial-but-not-of-record owners.

Dividends

Berkshire has not declared a cash dividend since 1967.

K-31

* * *

Common Stock Repurchase Program

Berkshire's common stock repurchase program permits Berkshire to repurchase
its Class A and Class B shares at any time that Warren Buffett, Berkshire's
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Charles Munger, Vice
Chairman of the Board, believe that the repurchase price is below Berkshire's
intrinsic value, conservatively determined. Repurchases may be in the open
market or through privately negotiated transactions. Information with respect
to Berkshire's Class A and Class B common stock repurchased during the fourth
quarter of 2022 follows.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Period

|

|

Total number of shares purchased

|

|

Average price paid per share

|

|

Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program

|

|

Maximum number or value of shares that yet may be repurchased under the
program  
  
October

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Class A common stock

|

|

|

1,550

|

|

$

|

426,592.77

|

|

|

1,550

|

|

*  
  
Class B common stock

|

|

|

--

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

--

|

|

*  
  
November

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Class A common stock

|

|

|

2,146

|

|

$

|

463,584.86

|

|

|

2,146

|

|

*  
  
Class B common stock

|

|

|

--

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

--

|

|

*  
  
December

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Class A common stock

|

|

|

584

|

|

$

|

468,113.93

|

|

|

584

|

|

*  
  
Class B common stock

|

|

|

3,046,794

|

|

$

|

303.83

|

|

|

3,046,794

|

|

*  
  
* The program does not specify a maximum number of shares to be repurchased or obligate Berkshire to repurchase any specific dollar amount or number of Class A or Class B shares and there is no expiration date to the repurchase program. Berkshire will not repurchase its common stock if the repurchases reduce the total value of Berkshire's consolidated cash, cash equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bills holdings to less than $30 billion.

Stock Performance Graph

The following chart compares the subsequent value of $100 invested in
Berkshire common stock on December 31, 2017 with a similar investment in the
Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index and in the Standard & Poor's Property -
Casualty Insurance Index**.

![img67503748_0.jpg](img67503748_0.jpg)

* Cumulative return for the Standard & Poor's indices based on reinvestment of dividends.

** It would be difficult to develop a peer group of companies similar to
Berkshire. The Corporation owns subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse
business activities of which an important component is the property and
casualty insurance business. Accordingly, management has used the Standard &
Poor's Property--Casualty Insurance Index for comparative purposes.

Item 6. [Reserved]

K-32

* * *

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

Results of Operations

Net earnings (loss) attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders for each
of the past three years are disaggregated in the table that follows. Amounts
are after deducting income taxes and exclude earnings attributable to
noncontrolling interests (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Insurance - underwriting

|

$

|

(90

|

)

|

|

$

|

728

|

|

|

$

|

657

|  
  
Insurance - investment income

|

|

6,484

|

|

|

|

4,807

|

|

|

|

5,039

|  
  
Railroad

|

|

5,946

|

|

|

|

5,990

|

|

|

|

5,161

|  
  
Utilities and energy

|

|

3,904

|

|

|

|

3,572

|

|

|

|

3,141

|  
  
Manufacturing, service and retailing

|

|

12,512

|

|

|

|

11,120

|

|

|

|

8,300

|  
  
Investment and derivative contract gains (losses)

|

|

(53,612

|

)

|

|

|

62,340

|

|

|

|

31,591

|  
  
Other*

|

|

2,037

|

|

|

|

1,238

|

|

|

|

(11,368

|

)  
  
Net earnings (loss) attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders

|

$

|

(22,819

|

)

|

|

$

|

89,795

|

|

|

$

|

42,521

|  
  
* Includes goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $157 million in 2022, $259 million in 2021 and $11.0 billion in 2020, which includes our share of charges recorded by Kraft Heinz.

Through our subsidiaries, we engage in numerous diverse business activities.
We manage our operating businesses on an unusually decentralized basis. There
are few centralized or integrated business functions. Our senior corporate
management team participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant
capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the
Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses. The business segment
data (Note 25 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements) should be
read in conjunction with this discussion.

The COVID-19 pandemic affected our operating businesses in varying ways and
degrees, particularly in 2020 and 2021. Significant disruptions of supply
chains and higher costs emerged in 2021 and persisted in 2022. Further,
geopolitical conflicts, including the Russia-Ukraine conflict, developed in
2022 and are continuing in 2023. We cannot reliably predict future economic
effects of these events on our businesses. Nor can we reliably predict how
these events will alter the future consumption patterns of consumers and
businesses we serve.

Insurance underwriting generated an after-tax loss of $90 million in 2022 and
after-tax earnings of $728 million in 2021 and $657 million in 2020. Insurance
underwriting results included after-tax losses from significant catastrophe
events of approximately $2.4 billion in 2022, $2.3 billion in 2021 and $750
million in 2020. Underwriting results in 2022 were also negatively impacted by
increases in private passenger automobile claims frequencies and severities at
GEICO, and favorably impacted by higher earnings from reinsurance underwriting
and foreign currency exchange rate gains arising from the remeasurement of
non-U.S. Dollar denominated liabilities of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries.

Underwriting results in 2021 were favorably impacted by reductions in incurred
losses for prior accident years under property and casualty insurance and
reinsurance contracts. Underwriting results in 2021 were negatively impacted
by higher private passenger auto claims frequencies and severities and by the
reduction in earned premium from the GEICO Giveback program, as well as from
high claims costs in the life reinsurance business. Underwriting results in
2020 included the effects of the pandemic, arising from premium reductions
from the GEICO Giveback program, significantly reduced claims frequencies for
private passenger automobile insurance and increased loss estimates for
certain commercial insurance coverages.

After-tax earnings from insurance investment income increased $1.7 billion in
2022 compared to 2021, attributable to increased dividend income and higher
interest rates. After-tax earnings from insurance investment income in 2021
and 2020 were negatively affected by low interest rates on our substantial
holdings of cash and U.S. Treasury Bills.

K-33

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Results of Operations (Continued)

After-tax earnings of our railroad, BNSF were relatively unchanged in 2022
compared to 2021 and increased 16.1% in 2021 versus 2020. Results in 2022
reflected higher revenue per car/unit, substantially offset by lower overall
freight volumes and higher fuel and other operating costs. The earnings
increase in 2021 reflected overall higher freight volumes, higher average
revenue per car/unit and improved productivity, partly offset by higher
average fuel prices and volume related costs. Earnings in 2020 reflected
relatively low railroad operating revenues from reduced shipping volumes,
attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic, partly offset by lower operating costs
and the effects of productivity improvements.

After-tax earnings of our utilities and energy business increased 9.3% in 2022
compared to 2021 and 13.7% in 2021 versus 2020. The increase in 2022 reflected
higher earnings from other energy businesses, including tax equity investments
and the Northern Powergrid businesses, as well as from the natural gas
pipeline businesses, partly offset by lower earnings from the real estate
brokerage business. The increase in 2021 reflected higher earnings from the
U.S. utilities and natural gas pipelines businesses.

Earnings from our manufacturing, service and retailing businesses increased
12.5% in 2022 compared to 2021 and 34.0% in 2021 versus 2020. Operating
results in 2022 were mixed among our various businesses. While customer demand
for products and services was relatively good in 2022, demand began to weaken
in the second half of the year at certain of our businesses. We experienced
the negative effects of higher materials, freight, labor and other input costs
through much of 2022. Many of our businesses generated significantly higher
earnings in 2021 compared to 2020, attributable to relatively strong customer
demand for products and higher selling prices, partially offset by higher
materials, freight and other input costs attributable to ongoing disruptions
in global supply chains.

Investment and derivative contract gains (losses) in each of the three years
presented predominantly derived from our investments in equity securities and
included significant net unrealized gains and losses from market price
changes. We believe that investment gains and losses on investments in equity
securities, whether realized from dispositions or unrealized from changes in
market prices, are generally meaningless in understanding our reported
quarterly or annual results or evaluating the economic performance of our
operating businesses. These gains and losses have caused and will continue to
cause significant volatility in our periodic earnings.

Other earnings included after-tax foreign exchange rate gains of approximately
$1.3 billion in 2022 and $1.0 billion in 2021 and after-tax losses of $764
million in 2020 related to the non-U.S. Dollar denominated debt issued by
Berkshire and its U.S.-based finance subsidiary, Berkshire Hathaway Finance
Corporation ("BHFC"). Other earnings also included after-tax goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $157 million in 2022,
$259 million in 2021 and $11.0 billion in 2020. Such amounts included our
share of impairment charges recorded by Kraft Heinz. Approximately $9.8
billion of the charges in 2020 were attributable to impairments of goodwill
and indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded in connection with Berkshire's
acquisition of Precision Castparts in 2016.

Insurance--Underwriting

Our management views our insurance businesses as possessing two distinct
activities - underwriting and investing. Underwriting decisions are the
responsibility of the unit managers, while investing decisions are the
responsibility of Berkshire's Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett and
Berkshire's corporate investment managers. Accordingly, we evaluate
performance of underwriting operations without any allocation of investment
income or investment gains and losses. We consider investment income as an
integral component of our aggregate insurance operating results. However, we
consider investment gains and losses, whether realized or unrealized, as non-
operating. We believe that such gains and losses are not meaningful in
understanding the periodic operating results of our insurance businesses.

The timing and magnitude of catastrophe losses can produce significant
volatility in our periodic underwriting results, particularly with respect to
our reinsurance businesses. We currently consider pre-tax incurred losses
exceeding $150 million from a current year catastrophic event to be
significant. Significant catastrophe events in 2022 included Hurricane Ian and
floods in Australia, while significant events in 2021 included Hurricane Ida,
floods in Europe and Winter Storm Uri.

Changes in estimates for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, including
amounts established for occurrences in prior years, can also significantly
affect our periodic underwriting results. Unpaid loss estimates, including
estimates under retroactive reinsurance contracts, were approximately $143
billion as of December 31, 2022 and $125 billion as of December 31, 2021. Our
periodic underwriting results may also include significant foreign currency
transaction gains and losses arising from the changes in the valuation of
non-U.S. Dollar denominated liabilities of our U.S. based insurance
subsidiaries due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.

K-34

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Insurance--Underwriting (Continued)

We provide primary insurance and reinsurance products covering property and
casualty risks, as well as life and health risks. Our insurance and
reinsurance businesses are GEICO, Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group ("BH
Primary") and Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ("BHRG"). On October 19,
2022, Berkshire acquired Alleghany Corporation ("Alleghany"), which operates
property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses. These businesses
were included in the BH Primary and BHRG underwriting results beginning as of
that date.

We strive to produce pre-tax underwriting earnings (premiums earned less
losses incurred and underwriting expenses) over the long term in all business
categories, except for BHRG's retroactive reinsurance and periodic payment
annuity contracts. Time-value-of-money is an important element in establishing
prices for these contracts. We normally receive all premiums at the contract
inception date, which are immediately available for investment. Ultimate claim
payments can extend for decades and are expected to exceed premiums, producing
underwriting losses over the claim settlement periods, primarily through
deferred charge amortization and discount accretion charges.

Underwriting results of our insurance businesses are summarized below (dollars
in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Pre-tax underwriting earnings (loss):

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
GEICO

|

$

|

(1,880

|

)

|

|

$

|

1,259

|

|

|

$

|

3,428

|  
  
Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

|

|

393

|

|

|

|

607

|

|

|

|

110

|  
  
Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

|

|

1,389

|

|

|

|

(930

|

)

|

|

|

(2,700

|

)  
  
Pre-tax underwriting earnings

|

|

(98

|

)

|

|

|

936

|

|

|

|

838

|  
  
Income taxes and noncontrolling interests

|

|

(8

|

)

|

|

|

208

|

|

|

|

181

|  
  
Net underwriting earnings (loss)

|

$

|

(90

|

)

|

|

$

|

728

|

|

|

$

|

657

|  
  
Effective income tax rate

|

|

8.5

|

%

|

|

|

22.2

|

%

|

|

|

21.5

|

%  
  
GEICO

GEICO writes private passenger automobile insurance, offering coverages to
insureds in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. GEICO markets its
policies mainly by direct response methods where most customers apply for
coverage directly to the company via the Internet or over the telephone. A
summary of GEICO's underwriting results follows (dollars in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Premiums written

|

$

|

39,107

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

38,395

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

34,928

|

|

|

|  
  
Premiums earned

|

$

|

38,984

|

|

|

|

100.0

|

|

|

$

|

37,706

|

|

|

|

100.0

|

|

|

$

|

35,093

|

|

|

|

100.0

|  
  
Losses and loss adjustment expenses

|

|

36,297

|

|

|

|

93.1

|

|

|

|

30,999

|

|

|

|

82.2

|

|

|

|

26,018

|

|

|

|

74.1

|  
  
Underwriting expenses

|

|

4,567

|

|

|

|

11.7

|

|

|

|

5,448

|

|

|

|

14.5

|

|

|

|

5,647

|

|

|

|

16.1

|  
  
Total losses and expenses

|

|

40,864

|

|

|

|

104.8

|

|

|

|

36,447

|

|

|

|

96.7

|

|

|

|

31,665

|

|

|

|

90.2

|  
  
Pre-tax underwriting earnings (loss)

|

$

|

(1,880

|

)

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

1,259

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

3,428

|

|

|

|  
  
GEICO's pre-tax underwriting results in each of the past three years were
significantly affected by changes in average claims frequencies and
severities. Beginning in the first quarter of 2020 and continuing through the
first quarter of 2021, average claims frequencies were significantly below
historical levels from the effects of less driving by policyholders during the
COVID-19 pandemic. These effects were partially offset by higher average
claims severities and lower premiums earned from the GEICO Giveback program,
which provided a 15% premium reduction to all new or renewing voluntary auto
and motorcycle policies between April 8, 2020 and October 7, 2020. Starting in
the second quarter of 2021, average claims frequencies began to increase as
driving by policyholders increased. GEICO's pre-tax underwriting losses in
2022 reflected significant increases in average claims severities, primarily
due to significant cost inflation in property and physical damage claims,
which began to accelerate in the second half of 2021 and have continued
through 2022. Increases in used car prices are producing increased claims
severities on total losses and shortages of car parts are contributing to
elevated claims severities on partial losses. In addition, injury claims
severities continued to trend higher in 2022.

K-35

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Insurance--Underwriting (Continued)

GEICO (Continued)

2022 versus 2021

Premiums written increased $712 million (1.9%) in 2022 compared to 2021,
reflecting increases in average premiums per auto policy due to rate
increases, which were substantially offset by a decrease in policies-in-force.
Voluntary auto policies-in-force declined 8.9% in 2022 compared to 2021 while
average premiums per voluntary auto policy increased 11.3%. Premiums earned
increased $1.3 billion (3.4%) in 2022 compared to 2021, partially attributable
to a reduction in 2021 of approximately $475 million from the remaining impact
of the GEICO Giveback program.

Losses and loss adjustment expenses increased $5.3 billion (17.1%) in 2022
compared to 2021. GEICO's ratio of losses and loss adjustment expenses to
premiums earned (the "loss ratio") was 93.1% in 2022, an increase of 10.9
percentage points over 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to higher
claims frequencies and severities, as well as lower reductions of ultimate
loss estimates for prior years' events.

Claims frequencies in 2022 were higher for all coverages, including property
damage (one to two percent range), bodily injury and collision (four to five
percent range) and personal injury (three to four percent range). Average
claims severities in 2022 were higher for all coverages, including property
damage (twenty-one to twenty-two percent range), collision (fourteen to
sixteen percent range) and bodily injury (nine to eleven percent range).
Losses and loss adjustment expenses reflected reductions in the ultimate loss
estimates for prior years' loss events of $653 million in 2022 compared to
$1.8 billion in 2021. The reductions in 2022 reflected decreases in all major
coverages except collision and property damage coverages, while the reductions
in 2021 were across all major coverages. Losses and loss adjustment expenses
were approximately $400 million from Hurricane Ian in 2022 and $375 million
from Hurricane Ida in 2021.

Underwriting expenses decreased $881 million (16.2%) in 2022 compared to 2021,
primarily due to significant reductions in advertising costs and lower
employee-related costs. GEICO's expense ratio (underwriting expense to
premiums earned) was 11.7% in 2022, a decrease of 2.8 percentage points
compared to 2021, attributable to both the decrease in expenses as well as the
increase in earned premiums.

GEICO has successfully obtained premium rate increase approvals from certain
states in response to the significant claims costs increases it has
experienced in recent years. As a result, we currently expect GEICO to
generate an underwriting profit in 2023.

2021 versus 2020

Premiums written in 2021 increased $3.5 billion (9.9%) compared to 2020, which
included a reduction of approximately $2.9 billion attributable to the GEICO
Giveback program. Premiums earned in 2021 increased $2.6 billion (7.4%)
compared to 2020. The GEICO Giveback Program reduced earned premiums by
approximately $2.5 billion in 2020 with the remainder of the impact included
in 2021. Voluntary auto policies-in-force in 2021 were slightly higher
compared to 2020.

Losses and loss adjustment expenses increased $5.0 billion (19.1%) compared to
2020. GEICO's loss ratio increased 8.1 percentage points compared to 2020. The
increase in the loss ratio reflected an increase in average claims frequencies
and severities and higher losses from significant catastrophe events,
partially offset by increased reductions of ultimate estimated losses for
claims occurring in prior years.

Claims frequencies in 2021 were higher for all coverages, including property
damage and bodily injury (thirteen to fourteen percent range), personal injury
(sixteen to seventeen percent range) and collision (twenty-one to twenty-two
percent range). Average claims severities in 2021 were also higher for
property damage coverage (two to three percent range), collision coverage
(fifteen to sixteen percent range) and bodily injury coverage (eight to ten
percent range). Ultimate claim loss estimates for claims occurring in prior
years were reduced approximately $1.8 billion in 2021 and $253 million in
2020. Losses incurred attributable to Hurricane Ida in 2021 were $375 million,
while losses in 2020 were $81 million from significant catastrophe events.

Underwriting expenses decreased $199 million (3.5%) compared to 2020,
reflecting lower advertising expenses. GEICO's expense ratio decreased 1.6
percentage points in 2021, reflecting lower expenses and higher premiums
earned.

K-36

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Insurance--Underwriting (Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group consists of several independently managed
businesses that provide a variety of primarily commercial insurance solutions,
including healthcare professional liability, workers' compensation,
automobile, general liability, property and specialty coverages for small,
medium and large clients. BH Primary's larger insurers include Berkshire
Hathaway Specialty Insurance ("BH Specialty"), Berkshire Hathaway Homestate
Companies ("BHHC"), MedPro Group, Berkshire Hathaway GUARD Insurance Companies
("GUARD"), National Indemnity Company ("NICO Primary") and U.S. Liability
Insurance Company ("USLI"). This group also includes Alleghany's RSUI Group
Inc. and CapSpecialty, Inc. ("Alleghany Insurance") beginning October 19,
2022. A summary of BH Primary underwriting results follows (dollars in
millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Premiums written

|

$

|

14,619

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

12,595

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

10,212

|

|

|

|  
  
Premiums earned

|

$

|

13,746

|

|

|

|

100.0

|

|

|

$

|

11,575

|

|

|

|

100.0

|

|

|

$

|

9,615

|

|

|

|

100.0

|  
  
Losses and loss adjustment expenses

|

|

9,889

|

|

|

|

71.9

|

|

|

|

8,107

|

|

|

|

70.0

|

|

|

|

7,129

|

|

|

|

74.1

|  
  
Underwriting expenses

|

|

3,464

|

|

|

|

25.2

|

|

|

|

2,861

|

|

|

|

24.8

|

|

|

|

2,376

|

|

|

|

24.7

|  
  
Total losses and expenses

|

|

13,353

|

|

|

|

97.1

|

|

|

|

10,968

|

|

|

|

94.8

|

|

|

|

9,505

|

|

|

|

98.8

|  
  
Pre-tax underwriting earnings

|

$

|

393

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

607

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

110

|

|

|

|  
  
Premiums written increased $2.0 billion (16.1%) in 2022 compared to 2021,
reflecting increases at BH Specialty (16%), USLI (16%), BHHC (15%) and MedPro
Group (10%), and from the inclusion of Alleghany Insurance ($435 million).
Premiums written increased $2.4 billion (23.3%) in 2021 compared to 2020,
primarily due to increases from BH Specialty (36%), MedPro Group (16%), NICO
Primary (25%), GUARD (7%) and USLI (20%). The increases in each year were
across a variety of coverages and in several markets.

BH Primary's loss ratio increased 1.9 percentage points compared to 2021,
which decreased 4.1 percentage points versus 2020. Incurred losses from
significant catastrophe events were $641 million in 2022 ($554 from Hurricane
Ian), $433 million in 2021 ($239 million from Hurricane Ida) and $207 million
in 2020 ($160 million from Hurricanes Laura and Sally). Incurred losses in
2020 also included increased liabilities attributable to the pandemic of $167
million. Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses reflected net reductions
in estimated ultimate liabilities for prior years' loss events of $428 million
in 2022, $631 million in 2021 and $265 million in 2020. BH Primary insurers
continue to write significant levels of workers' compensation, commercial and
professional liability insurance and the related claim costs may be subject to
high severity and long claim-tails. Claims liabilities could be greater than
anticipated due to a variety of factors.

Underwriting expenses increased $603 million (21.1%) in 2022 compared to 2021,
while underwriting expenses increased $485 million (20.4%) in 2021 compared to
2020. These increases reflected the increases in premiums earned and changes
in business mix.

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ("BHRG") offers excess-of-loss and
quota-share reinsurance coverages on property and casualty risks to insurers
and reinsurers worldwide through several subsidiaries, led by National
Indemnity Company ("NICO"), General Reinsurance Corporation, General
Reinsurance AG and, beginning October 19, 2022, Alleghany's Transatlantic
Reinsurance Company and affiliates ("TransRe Group"). We also write life and
health reinsurance coverages through General Re Life Corporation, General
Reinsurance AG and Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska
("BHLN"). We assume property and casualty risks under retroactive reinsurance
contracts written through NICO and we write periodic payment annuity contracts
through BHLN.

K-37

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Insurance--Underwriting (Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)

A summary of BHRG's premiums and pre-tax underwriting earnings follows
(dollars in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Premiums earned

|

|

Pre-tax underwriting  
earnings (loss)

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

2021

|

|

2020

|

|

2022

|

|

2021

|

|

2020

|  
  
Property/casualty

|

$

|

16,040

|

|

$

|

13,740

|

|

$

|

12,214

|

|

$

|

2,180

|

|

$

|

667

|

|

$

|

(799

|

)  
  
Life/health

|

|

5,279

|

|

|

5,648

|

|

|

5,861

|

|

|

292

|

|

|

(421

|

)

|

|

(18

|

)  
  
Retroactive reinsurance

|

|

--

|

|

|

136

|

|

|

38

|

|

|

(668

|

)

|

|

(782

|

)

|

|

(1,248

|

)  
  
Periodic payment annuity

|

|

582

|

|

|

658

|

|

|

566

|

|

|

(532

|

)

|

|

(508

|

)

|

|

(617

|

)  
  
Variable annuity

|

|

14

|

|

|

15

|

|

|

14

|

|

|

117

|

|

|

114

|

|

|

(18

|

)  
  
|

$

|

21,915

|

|

$

|

20,197

|

|

$

|

18,693

|

|

$

|

1,389

|

|

$

|

(930

|

)

|

$

|

(2,700

|

)  
  
Property/casualty

A summary of property/casualty reinsurance underwriting results follows
(dollars in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Premiums written

|

$

|

16,962

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

14,149

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

13,295

|

|

|

|  
  
Premiums earned

|

$

|

16,040

|

|

|

|

100.0

|

|

|

$

|

13,740

|

|

|

|

100.0

|

|

|

$

|

12,214

|

|

|

|

100.0

|  
  
Losses and loss adjustment expenses

|

|

10,605

|

|

|

|

66.1

|

|

|

|

9,878

|

|

|

|

71.9

|

|

|

|

9,898

|

|

|

|

81.0

|  
  
Underwriting expenses

|

|

3,255

|

|

|

|

20.3

|

|

|

|

3,195

|

|

|

|

23.2

|

|

|

|

3,115

|

|

|

|

25.5

|  
  
Total losses and expenses

|

|

13,860

|

|

|

|

86.4

|

|

|

|

13,073

|

|

|

|

95.1

|

|

|

|

13,013

|

|

|

|

106.5

|  
  
Pre-tax underwriting earnings (loss)

|

$

|

2,180

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

667

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

(799

|

)

|

|

|  
  
Premiums written increased $2.8 billion (19.9%) in 2022 compared to 2021,
primarily due to net increases in new property business and higher rates, and
the inclusion of the TransRe Group ($986 million), partially offset by
unfavorable foreign currency translation effects. Premiums written increased
$854 million (6.4%) in 2021 compared to 2020, primarily attributable to net
new business, increased participations and improved prices on renewals and
favorable currency translation effects. The increase was primarily
attributable to property coverages.

Losses and loss adjustment expenses increased $727 million (7.4%) in 2022
compared to 2021 and were relatively unchanged in 2021 compared to 2020.
Losses incurred from significant catastrophe events were $2.0 billion in 2022
($1.6 billion from Hurricane Ian), $2.1 billion ($933 million from Hurricane
Ida) in 2021 and $667 million in 2020 ($357 million in the aggregate from
Hurricanes Laura and Sally). Losses incurred in 2020 also included $964
million attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic. Losses and loss adjustment
expenses included reductions in estimated ultimate liabilities for prior
years' events of $1.6 billion in 2022 and $718 million in 2021 and increases
of $162 million in 2020.

Underwriting expenses as percentages of premiums earned decreased 2.9
percentage points in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily attributable to foreign
currency exchange rate effects and changes in business mix. Underwriting
expenses included foreign currency exchange gains of $371 million in 2022
compared to $173 million in 2021, related to the remeasurement of certain
non-U.S. Dollar denominated liabilities of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries.
The expense ratio in 2021 decreased 2.3 percentage points compared to 2020,
primarily attributable to changes in business mix and foreign currency
effects.

K-38

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Insurance--Underwriting (Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)

Life/health

A summary of our life/health reinsurance underwriting results follows (dollars
in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

Amount

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Premiums written

|

$

|

5,185

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

5,621

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

5,848

|

|

|

|  
  
Premiums earned

|

$

|

5,279

|

|

|

|

100.0

|

|

|

$

|

5,648

|

|

|

|

100.0

|

|

|

$

|

5,861

|

|

|

|

100.0

|  
  
Life and health insurance benefits

|

|

4,004

|

|

|

|

75.8

|

|

|

|

4,933

|

|

|

|

87.3

|

|

|

|

4,883

|

|

|

|

83.3

|  
  
Underwriting expenses

|

|

983

|

|

|

|

18.7

|

|

|

|

1,136

|

|

|

|

20.2

|

|

|

|

996

|

|

|

|

17.0

|  
  
Total benefits and expenses

|

|

4,987

|

|

|

|

94.5

|

|

|

|

6,069

|

|

|

|

107.5

|

|

|

|

5,879

|

|

|

|

100.3

|  
  
Pre-tax underwriting earnings (loss)

|

$

|

292

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

(421

|

)

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

(18

|

)

|

|

|  
  
Life/health premiums written decreased $436 million (7.8%) in 2022 compared to
2021 which decreased 3.9% from 2020. The decrease in 2022 was primarily due to
unfavorable foreign currency translation effects ($289 million) and decreased
volume in the Asia Pacific region. Premiums written in 2020 included $710
million from a contract that covered U.S. health risks that did not renew in
2021. Otherwise, premiums written in 2021 increased 9.4% versus 2020,
primarily due to volume growth in the Asia Pacific region and favorable
foreign currency translation effects. Life and health benefits declined $929
million (18.8%) in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to relatively high
pandemic-related mortality claims in the U.S., South Africa, India and Latin
America in 2021. Underwriting earnings in 2020 were negatively affected by
increased life benefits from COVID-19-related claims and from increased
liabilities from changes in assumptions used in estimating disability benefit
liabilities in Australia, which were mostly offset by lower other life claims
and reduced losses from U.S. long-term care business in run-off.

Retroactive reinsurance

Retroactive reinsurance underwriting results primarily derive from the runoff
of contracts written several years ago. Pre-tax underwriting losses in each
year derived from the amortization of deferred charges and changes in the
estimated timing and amounts of future claim payments. Underwriting results
also include foreign currency exchange gains and losses from the effects of
changes in foreign currency exchange rates on non-U.S. Dollar denominated
liabilities of our U.S. subsidiaries. Pre-tax foreign currency gains were $168
million in 2022 and $58 million in 2021 versus pre-tax losses of $171 million
in 2020.

Pre-tax underwriting losses before foreign currency gains/losses were $836
million in 2022, $840 million in 2021 and $1.1 billion in 2020, primarily from
deferred charge amortization. Underwriting results also reflected the effects
of changes in the estimates of the timing of future payments and amounts of
ultimate claim liabilities. Estimated ultimate claim liabilities for prior
years' contracts were increased $86 million in 2022 and reduced $974 million
in 2021, which net of related changes in unamortized deferred charges,
produced relatively insignificant effects on underwriting earnings.

Gross unpaid losses assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts were $35.4
billion at December 31, 2022, a decline of $2.4 billion since December 31,
2021, primarily attributable to paid claims. Unamortized deferred charges
related to retroactive reinsurance contracts were $9.9 billion at December 31,
2022, a decline of $769 million since December 31, 2021. Deferred charge
amortization will be included in underwriting earnings over the expected
remaining claims settlement periods.

Periodic payment annuity

Periodic payment annuity premiums earned decreased $76 million (11.6%) in 2022
compared to 2021, which increased $92 million (16.3%) compared to 2020.
Periodic payment annuity business is both price and demand sensitive and the
supply of available business is affected by the timing of underlying legal
claim settlements. Our volumes written may change rapidly due to changes in
prices, which are affected by prevailing interest rates, the perceived risks
and durations associated with the expected annuity payments, as well as the
level of competition.

K-39

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Insurance--Underwriting (Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)

Our periodic payment annuity contracts normally produce pre-tax underwriting
losses from the recurring accretion of time-value discounted annuity
liabilities, which includes discount accruals on liabilities of contracts
without life contingencies. Underwriting results also include gains or losses
from foreign currency exchange rate changes on non-U.S. Dollar denominated
liabilities of our U.S. subsidiaries. Pre-tax underwriting results included
foreign currency gains of $164 million in 2022 and $18 million in 2021, and
pre-tax losses of $67 million in 2020.

Pre-tax underwriting losses before foreign currency exchange effects were $696
million in 2022, $526 million in 2021 and $550 million in 2020. Pre-tax losses
in 2022 included approximately $130 million attributable to the termination of
a reinsurance contract, in which the settlement paid exceeded the carrying
value of the liabilities. Pre-tax losses in 2021 were partially offset by the
effects of higher mortality and by higher interest rates applicable to
settlements under certain contracts. Discounted liabilities were $15.4 billion
at December 31, 2022, which included $3.9 billion for contracts without life
contingencies, and had a weighted average discount rate of approximately 3.9%.
Upon the adoption of ASU 2018-12 in 2023, the discount rates on contracts with
life-contingent liabilities will be adjusted quarterly based upon prevailing
interest rates which could have a significant effect on our recorded
liabilities. The periodic effect from discount rate changes will be reflected
in other comprehensive income.

Variable annuity

Variable annuity guarantee reinsurance contracts produced pre-tax gains of
$117 million in 2022 and $114 million in 2021, and pre-tax losses of $18
million in 2020. The results from these contracts are affected by changes in
securities markets, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which
can be volatile, and from the periodic amortization of expected profit
margins. Underwriting earnings in 2022 and 2021 were primarily attributable to
the net effects of interest rate increases and changes in securities markets.

Insurance--Investment Income

A summary of net investment income attributable to our insurance operations
follows (dollars in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Percentage change

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

2022 vs 2021

|

|

2021 vs 2020

|  
  
Dividend income

|

$

|

6,039

|

|

|

$

|

5,060

|

|

|

$

|

4,890

|

|

|

19.3

|

%

|

|

3.5

|

%  
  
Interest and other investment income

|

|

1,685

|

|

|

|

589

|

|

|

|

1,059

|

|

|

186.1

|

|

|

(44.4

|

)  
  
Pre-tax net investment income

|

|

7,724

|

|

|

|

5,649

|

|

|

|

5,949

|

|

|

36.7

|

|

|

(5.0

|

)  
  
Income taxes and noncontrolling interests

|

|

1,240

|

|

|

|

842

|

|

|

|

910

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Net investment income

|

$

|

6,484

|

|

|

$

|

4,807

|

|

|

$

|

5,039

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Effective income tax rate

|

|

16.0

|

%

|

|

|

14.9

|

%

|

|

|

15.3

|

%

|

|

|

|  
  
Dividend income increased $979 million (19.3%) in 2022 compared to 2021 and
increased $170 million (3.5%) in 2021 versus 2020. The increase in 2022
reflected an overall increase in equity security investments during 2022.
Dividend income also varies from period to period due to changes in the
investment portfolio and the frequency and timing of dividends from certain
investees. Dividend income included $46 million in 2022, $121 million in 2021
and $26 million in 2020 from investments in preferred stock of Berkshire
Hathaway Energy. Such amounts are deducted from earnings of the utilities and
energy segment.

Interest and other investment income increased $1.1 billion (186.1%) in 2022
compared to 2021, primarily due to significant increases in interest income
due to interest rate increases during the year, as well as the inclusion of
interest income on assets of Alleghany's insurance subsidiaries. Interest and
other investment income in 2021 declined 44.4% compared to 2020, primarily due
to lower income from short-term investments and fixed maturity securities. We
continue to hold substantial balances of cash, cash equivalents and short-term
U.S. Treasury Bills. We continue to believe that maintaining ample liquidity
is paramount and we insist on safety over yield with respect to short-term
investments.

K-40

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Insurance--Investment Income (Continued)

Invested assets of our insurance businesses derive from shareholder capital
and from net liabilities under insurance and reinsurance contracts or "float."
The major components of float are unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses,
including liabilities under retroactive reinsurance contracts, life, annuity
and health insurance benefit liabilities, unearned premiums and other
liabilities due to policyholders, reduced by insurance premiums and
reinsurance receivables, deferred charges assumed under retroactive
reinsurance contracts and deferred policy acquisition costs. Float
approximated $164 billion at December 31, 2022, $147 billion at December 31,
2021 and $138 billion at December 31, 2020. Float at December 31, 2022
included approximately $14 billion attributable to Alleghany's insurance and
reinsurance businesses. Our combined insurance operations generated pre-tax
underwriting losses of $98 million in 2022, and the cost of float was nominal.
In 2021 and 2020, our combined insurance operations generated pre-tax
underwriting gains, and consequently, the cost of float in each year was
negative.

A summary of cash and investments held in our insurance businesses as of
December 31, 2022 and 2021 follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

December 31,

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Cash, cash equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bills

|

$

|

86,816

|

|

|

$

|

90,688

|  
  
Equity securities

|

|

298,934

|

|

|

|

334,907

|  
  
Fixed maturity securities

|

|

24,998

|

|

|

|

16,386

|  
  
Other

|

|

3,417

|

|

|

|

4,296

|  
  
|

$

|

414,165

|

|

|

$

|

446,277

|  
  
Fixed maturity investments as of December 31, 2022 were as follows (in
millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Amortized  
cost

|

|

|

Unrealized  
gains/losses

|

|

|

Carrying  
value

|  
  
U.S. Treasury, U.S. government corporations and agencies

|

$

|

10,029

|

|

|

$

|

(237

|

)

|

|

$

|

9,792

|  
  
Foreign governments

|

|

10,375

|

|

|

|

(127

|

)

|

|

|

10,248

|  
  
Corporate bonds

|

|

1,938

|

|

|

|

251

|

|

|

|

2,189

|  
  
Other

|

|

2,701

|

|

|

|

68

|

|

|

|

2,769

|  
  
|

$

|

25,043

|

|

|

$

|

(45

|

)

|

|

$

|

24,998

|  
  
U.S. government obligations are rated AA+ or Aaa by the major rating agencies.
Approximately 93% of all foreign government obligations were rated AA or
higher by at least one of the major rating agencies. Foreign government
securities include obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by
national or provincial government entities.

K-41

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Railroad

Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC ("BNSF") operates one of the largest
railroad systems in North America, with over 32,500 route miles of track in 28
states. BNSF also operates in three Canadian provinces. BNSF classifies its
major business groups by type of product shipped including consumer products,
industrial products, agricultural products and coal. A summary of BNSF's
earnings follows (dollars in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Percentage change

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

2021

|

|

2020

|

|

2022 vs 2021

|

|

2021 vs 2020

|  
  
Railroad operating revenues

|

|

$

|

25,203

|

|

$

|

22,513

|

|

$

|

20,181

|

|

|

11.9

|

%

|

|

11.6

|

%  
  
Railroad operating expenses:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Compensation and benefits

|

|

|

5,253

|

|

|

4,696

|

|

|

4,542

|

|

|

11.9

|

|

|

3.4

|  
  
Fuel

|

|

|

4,581

|

|

|

2,766

|

|

|

1,789

|

|

|

65.6

|

|

|

54.6

|  
  
Purchased services

|

|

|

2,102

|

|

|

2,033

|

|

|

1,954

|

|

|

3.4

|

|

|

4.0

|  
  
Depreciation and amortization

|

|

|

2,517

|

|

|

2,444

|

|

|

2,460

|

|

|

3.0

|

|

|

(0.7

|

)  
  
Equipment rents, materials and other

|

|

|

2,147

|

|

|

1,763

|

|

|

1,684

|

|

|

21.8

|

|

|

4.7

|  
  
Total

|

|

|

16,600

|

|

|

13,702

|

|

|

12,429

|

|

|

21.2

|

|

|

10.2

|  
  
Railroad operating earnings

|

|

|

8,603

|

|

|

8,811

|

|

|

7,752

|

|

|

(2.4

|

)

|

|

13.7

|  
  
Other revenues (expenses):

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Other revenues

|

|

|

685

|

|

|

769

|

|

|

688

|

|

|

(10.9

|

)

|

|

11.8

|  
  
Other expenses, net

|

|

|

(555

|

)

|

|

(687

|

)

|

|

(611

|

)

|

|

(19.2

|

)

|

|

12.4

|  
  
Interest expense

|

|

|

(1,025

|

)

|

|

(1,032

|

)

|

|

(1,037

|

)

|

|

(0.7

|

)

|

|

(0.5

|

)  
  
Pre-tax earnings

|

|

|

7,708

|

|

|

7,861

|

|

|

6,792

|

|

|

(1.9

|

)

|

|

15.7

|  
  
Income taxes

|

|

|

1,762

|

|

|

1,871

|

|

|

1,631

|

|

|

(5.8

|

)

|

|

14.7

|  
  
Net earnings

|

|

$

|

5,946

|

|

$

|

5,990

|

|

$

|

5,161

|

|

|

(0.7

|

)

|

|

16.1

|  
  
Effective income tax rate

|

|

|

22.9

|

%

|

|

23.8

|

%

|

|

24.0

|

%

|

|

|

|  
  
The following table summarizes BNSF's railroad freight volumes by business
group (cars/units in thousands).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Cars/Units

|

|

Percentage change

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

2021

|

|

2020

|

|

2022 vs 2021

|

|

2021 vs 2020

|  
  
Consumer products

|

|

|

5,202

|

|

|

5,673

|

|

|

5,266

|

|

|

(8.3

|

)%

|

|

7.7

|

%  
  
Industrial products

|

|

|

1,618

|

|

|

1,709

|

|

|

1,622

|

|

|

(5.3

|

)

|

|

5.4

|  
  
Agricultural products

|

|

|

1,200

|

|

|

1,224

|

|

|

1,189

|

|

|

(2.0

|

)

|

|

2.9

|  
  
Coal

|

|

|

1,529

|

|

|

1,529

|

|

|

1,404

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

8.9

|  
  
|

|

|

9,549

|

|

|

10,135

|

|

|

9,481

|

|

|

(5.8

|

)

|

|

6.9

|  
  
2022 versus 2021

Railroad operating revenues increased 11.9% in 2022 compared to 2021,
reflecting an 18.9% increase in average revenue per car/unit, including the
impact from higher fuel surcharge revenue driven by higher fuel prices,
partially offset by lower volumes of 5.8%. BNSF's pre-tax earnings decreased
1.9% in 2022 from 2021. Pre-tax earnings in 2022 were impacted by lower
volumes and higher fuel and other operating costs, offset by higher yield and
fuel surcharge revenue.

Operating revenues from consumer products increased 11.8% in 2022 to $9.2
billion compared to 2021, reflecting higher average revenue per car/unit,
partially offset by a volume decrease of 8.3%. The volume decrease was
primarily due to lower intermodal shipments, resulting from supply chain
disruptions and lower west coast imports during the second half of the year.

Operating revenues from industrial products were $5.6 billion in 2022, an
increase of 5.6% from 2021, reflecting higher average revenue per car/unit,
partially offset by a volume decrease of 5.3%. The volume decrease was
primarily due to a decrease in petroleum products related to lower demand for
shipments of crude by rail and lower building products, steel and taconite
shipments, partially offset by increased mineral shipments.

Operating revenues from agricultural products increased 12.6% to $5.7 billion
in 2022 compared to 2021. The revenue increase reflected higher revenue per
car/unit partially offset by lower volumes of 2.0%. The decrease in volumes
was primarily due to lower grain exports and fertilizer shipments, partially
offset by higher volumes of domestic grains, renewable diesel and feedstocks.

Operating revenues from coal increased 21.7% to $3.9 billion in 2022 compared
to 2021, attributable to higher average revenue per car/unit. Coal volumes
were unchanged compared to 2021.

K-42

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Railroad (Continued)

Railroad operating expenses were $16.6 billion in 2022, an increase of $2.9
billion (21.2%) compared to 2021. Our ratio of railroad operating expenses to
railroad operating revenues increased 5.0 percentage points to 65.9% in 2022
versus 2021. The operating expense increase was primarily attributable to
significant increases in the cost of fuel, as well as higher compensation and
benefits expense. Compensation and benefits expenses increased $557 million
(11.9%) in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to wage inflation, including
the impact from the ratified union labor agreements, higher health and welfare
costs and lower productivity. Fuel expenses increased $1.8 billion (65.6%) in
2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to higher average fuel prices, partially
offset by lower volumes. Equipment rents, materials and other expenses
increased $384 million (21.8%) in 2022 compared to 2021, due to general
inflation, lower gains from land and easement sales and higher casualty and
litigation costs.

Approximately 31,000 of BNSF's employees are members of a labor union. The
U.S. Class I railroads and rail labor unions were engaged in multi-party
national negotiations from January 2020 through June 2022. Federal mediation
was included in that timeframe, followed by a release from the National
Mediation Board and subsequent appointment of a Presidential Emergency Board
(PEB), in accordance with the Railway Labor Act. The PEB issued its report and
recommendations to settle the bargaining disputes on August 16, 2022.
Tentative agreements based on these recommendations were reached with all
labor unions in September 2022. Thereafter, a majority of the unions ratified
those agreements with the remainder being imposed by Congress in December
2022. This concluded the national round which is not subject to re-opening
until late 2024.

2021 versus 2020

Railroad operating revenues increased 11.6% in 2021 compared to 2020,
reflecting higher volumes of 6.9%, as well as a 3.5% increase in average
revenue per car/unit resulting from business mix changes and higher fuel
surcharge revenue attributable to higher fuel prices. Pre-tax earnings were
$7.9 billion in 2021, an increase of 15.7% from 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic
caused a significant economic slowdown that adversely affected our volumes in
2020. Revenue changes in 2021 were driven by continued improvements from the
2020 effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by disruptions in the
global supply chain.

Operating revenues from consumer products increased 13.7% in 2021 to $8.3
billion compared to 2020, reflecting increased volumes of 7.7% and higher
average revenue per car/unit. The volume increase was primarily due to growth
in intermodal in both international and domestic shipments driven by increased
retail sales, inventory replenishments by retailers and increased e-commerce
activity. Operating revenues from industrial products were $5.3 billion in
2021, an increase of 5.0% from 2020. Volumes increased 5.4% while average
revenue per car/unit was nearly unchanged from 2020. The volume increase was
primarily due to improvement in the U.S. industrial economy, driving higher
volumes in the construction and building sectors, partially offset by lower
petroleum volumes due to unfavorable market conditions in the energy sector.

Operating revenues from agricultural products increased 5.8% to $5.1 billion
in 2021 compared to 2020. The revenue change reflected a volume increase of
2.9% due to higher domestic grain shipments and higher volumes of ethanol and
related commodities, as well as higher revenue per car/unit. Operating
revenues from coal increased 21.5% to $3.2 billion in 2021 compared to 2020
attributable to higher volumes of 8.9% in 2021, as well as higher average
revenue per car/unit. The volume increase in 2021 was attributable to
increased electricity generation, higher natural gas prices and improved
export demand.

Railroad operating expenses were $13.7 billion in 2021, an increase of $1.3
billion (10.2%) compared to 2020. The ratio of railroad operating expenses to
railroad operating revenues decreased 0.7 percentage points to 60.9% in 2021
versus 2020. The increase in railroad operating expenses reflected higher
volumes and higher average fuel prices, partially offset by the favorable
impact of productivity improvements. Compensation and benefits expenses
increased $154 million (3.4%) in 2021 compared to 2020, primarily due to
increased volumes, wage inflation and health and welfare costs, partially
offset by productivity improvements. Fuel expenses increased $977 million
(54.6%) compared to 2020, primarily due to higher average fuel prices.
Purchased service expenses increased $79 million (4.0%) compared to 2020,
primarily due to higher volumes and the effects of insurance recoveries in
2020 related to 2019 flooding, partially offset by improved productivity.
Equipment rents, materials and other expenses increased $79 million (4.7%)
compared to 2020, due to higher volume-related costs.

K-43

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Utilities and Energy

We currently own 92% of Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company ("BHE"), which
operates a global energy business. BHE's domestic regulated utility interests
include PacifiCorp, MidAmerican Energy Company ("MEC") and NV Energy. BHE's
natural gas pipelines consist of five domestic regulated interstate natural
gas pipeline systems and a 25% interest in a liquefied natural gas export,
import and storage facility ("LNG interest"), which BHE operates and
consolidates for financial reporting purposes. Three of the natural gas
pipeline systems and the LNG interest were acquired on November 1, 2020 from
Dominion Energy, Inc. ("BHE GT&S"). Other energy businesses include two
regulated electricity distribution businesses operated by BHE subsidiaries
(referred to as Northern Powergrid) in Great Britain, a regulated electricity
transmission-only business in Alberta, Canada ("AltaLink, L.P.") and a
diversified portfolio of mostly renewable independent power projects and
investments. BHE also operates a residential real estate brokerage business
and a large network of real estate brokerage franchises in the United States.

The rates our regulated businesses charge customers for energy and services
are based in large part on the costs of business operations, including income
taxes and a return on capital, and are subject to regulatory approval. To the
extent such costs are not allowed in the approved rates, operating results
will be adversely affected. A summary of BHE's net earnings follows (dollars
in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Revenues:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Energy operating revenue

|

$

|

21,069

|

|

|

$

|

18,935

|

|

|

$

|

15,556

|  
  
Real estate operating revenue

|

|

5,268

|

|

|

|

6,215

|

|

|

|

5,396

|  
  
Other income (loss)

|

|

56

|

|

|

|

(54

|

)

|

|

|

148

|  
  
Total revenue

|

|

26,393

|

|

|

|

25,096

|

|

|

|

21,100

|  
  
Costs and expense:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Energy cost of sales

|

|

6,757

|

|

|

|

5,504

|

|

|

|

4,187

|  
  
Energy operating expense

|

|

9,233

|

|

|

|

8,535

|

|

|

|

7,539

|  
  
Real estate operating costs and expense

|

|

5,117

|

|

|

|

5,710

|

|

|

|

4,885

|  
  
Interest expense

|

|

2,140

|

|

|

|

2,054

|

|

|

|

1,941

|  
  
Total costs and expense

|

|

23,247

|

|

|

|

21,803

|

|

|

|

18,552

|  
  
Pre-tax earnings

|

|

3,146

|

|

|

|

3,293

|

|

|

|

2,548

|  
  
Income tax expense (benefit)*

|

|

(1,629

|

)

|

|

|

(1,153

|

)

|

|

|

(996

|

)  
  
Net earnings after income taxes

|

|

4,775

|

|

|

|

4,446

|

|

|

|

3,544

|  
  
Noncontrolling interests of BHE subsidiaries

|

|

423

|

|

|

|

399

|

|

|

|

71

|  
  
Net earnings attributable to BHE

|

|

4,352

|

|

|

|

4,047

|

|

|

|

3,473

|  
  
Noncontrolling interests and preferred stock dividends

|

|

448

|

|

|

|

475

|

|

|

|

332

|  
  
Net earnings attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders

|

$

|

3,904

|

|

|

$

|

3,572

|

|

|

$

|

3,141

|  
  
Effective income tax rate

|

|

(51.8

|

)%

|

|

|

(35.0

|

)%

|

|

|

(39.1

|

)%  
  
* Includes significant production tax credits from wind-powered electricity generation.

K-44

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Utilities and Energy (Continued)

The discussion of BHE's operating results that follows is based on after-tax
earnings, reflecting how the energy businesses are managed and evaluated. A
summary of net earnings attributable to BHE follows (dollars in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Percentage change

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

2022 vs 2021

|

|

2021 vs 2020

|  
  
U.S. utilities

|

$

|

2,295

|

|

|

$

|

2,211

|

|

|

$

|

1,969

|

|

|

3.8

|

%

|

|

12.3

|

%  
  
Natural gas pipelines

|

|

1,040

|

|

|

|

807

|

|

|

|

528

|

|

|

28.9

|

|

|

52.8

|  
  
Other energy businesses

|

|

1,338

|

|

|

|

979

|

|

|

|

953

|

|

|

36.7

|

|

|

2.7

|  
  
Real estate brokerage

|

|

100

|

|

|

|

387

|

|

|

|

375

|

|

|

(74.2

|

)

|

|

3.2

|  
  
Corporate interest and other

|

|

(421

|

)

|

|

|

(337

|

)

|

|

|

(352

|

)

|

|

24.9

|

|

|

(4.3

|

)  
  
|

$

|

4,352

|

|

|

$

|

4,047

|

|

|

$

|

3,473

|

|

|

7.5

|

|

|

16.5

|  
  
2022 versus 2021

Our U.S. utilities operate in several states, including Utah, Oregon and
Wyoming (PacifiCorp), Iowa and Illinois (MEC) and Nevada (NV Energy). After-
tax earnings increased $84 million in 2022 compared to 2021. The earnings
increase reflected higher electric utility margin (operating revenue less cost
of sales) and a $157 million increase in production tax credits recognized on
new wind-powered generating facilities placed in-service at PacifiCorp and
MEC, partially offset by higher operating expenses and state income taxes.
Operating expenses increased due to higher costs associated with certain
regulatory mechanisms at MEC and NV Energy, increases in general and plant
maintenance costs, incremental depreciation expense from additional assets
placed in-service and higher accruals at PacifiCorp associated with the 2020
wildfires.

The U.S. utilities' electric utility margin was $7.7 billion in 2022, an
increase of $586 million (8.3%) compared to 2021. The increase reflected
higher operating revenue from favorable retail and wholesale pricing and
increases in retail customer volumes, partially offset by increases in thermal
generation and purchased power costs. Retail customer volumes increased 2.4%
(1.6% at PacifiCorp, 4.3% at MEC and 2.2% at NV Energy) in 2022 compared to
2021, primarily due to higher customer usage, an increase in the average
number of customers and the favorable impact of weather.

Natural gas pipelines' after-tax earnings increased $233 million in 2022
compared to 2021. Substantially all of the increase was derived from BHE GT&S,
primarily attributable to higher regulated storage and service revenues from a
general rate case settlement and higher revenues and margins from non-
regulated activities, as well as income tax adjustments.

Other energy businesses' after-tax earnings increased $359 million in 2022
compared to 2021. The increase was primarily due to increased wind tax equity
investment earnings of $200 million and the impact in 2021 on income tax
expense of $109 million at Northern Powergrid related to the enactment in June
2021 of an increase in the United Kingdom corporate income tax rate from 19%
to 25%, effective April 1, 2023. The earnings increase also reflected higher
operating revenue from owned renewable energy projects and earnings from new
gas exploration and solar projects, partially offset by lower earnings from
natural gas generating facilities and unfavorable foreign currency translation
effects in 2022. The increase in wind tax equity investment earnings reflected
the impact of losses in 2021 on pre-existing tax equity investments due to the
February 2021 winter storms as well as increased income tax benefits from
projects reaching commercial operation over the past twelve months.

Real estate brokerage after-tax earnings decreased $287 million in 2022
compared to 2021. The decrease reflected lower brokerage services revenues and
margins, primarily due to an 11% reduction in closed brokerage transaction
volumes, as well as lower mortgage services revenues and margins from a 40%
decrease in closed transaction volumes, attributable to lower homeowner
refinancing activity resulting from rising interest rates.

Corporate interest and other after-tax earnings decreased $84 million in 2022
compared to 2021. The decrease was primarily due to lower state income tax
benefits and higher interest expense from corporate debt issued in 2022.

K-45

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Utilities and Energy (Continued)

2021 versus 2020

The U.S. utilities' after-tax earnings increased $242 million in 2021 compared
to 2020. The increase reflected higher electric utility margin and an increase
of $139 million in production tax credits recognized at PacifiCorp and MEC,
partially offset by higher operating expenses. Operating expenses increased
due to higher costs associated with certain regulatory mechanisms at MEC,
increased depreciation expense from additional assets placed in-service and by
the impacts of a depreciation study effective January 1, 2021 at PacifiCorp.
The operating expense increase was partially offset by the impact of accruals
at PacifiCorp in 2020 associated with wildfires and changes to a settlement
agreement in 2021 related to a hydroelectric facility, as well as lower costs
associated with certain regulatory mechanisms at NV Energy.

The U.S. utilities' electric utility margin was $7.1 billion in 2021, an
increase of $126 million (1.8%) compared to 2020. The increase reflected
higher operating revenue from increases in retail and wholesale customer
volumes and favorable wholesale pricing, partially offset by increases in
thermal generation and purchased power costs as well as lower base tariff
general rates in 2021 and a favorable regulatory decision in 2020 at NV
Energy. Retail customer volumes increased 3.8% in 2021 compared to 2020,
primarily due to higher customer usage, an increase in the average number of
customers and the favorable impact of weather.

Natural gas pipelines' after-tax earnings increased $279 million in 2021
compared to 2020. The earnings increase in 2021 was primarily due to
incremental earnings of $211 million from the BHE GT&S acquisition completed
in November 2020. In addition, earnings in 2021 reflected the effects of
higher margins on natural gas sales and higher transportation revenue at
Northern Natural Gas due to increased demand from the February 2021 winter
storms, partially offset by lower transportation revenue primarily due to
lower volumes for the remainder of the year.

Other energy businesses' after-tax earnings increased $26 million in 2021
compared to 2020. The increase was primarily due to higher earnings at
Northern Powergrid ($46 million), partially offset by lower earnings from
renewable energy. The increase at Northern Powergrid was attributable to
higher tariff rates and units distributed, lower write-offs of gas exploration
costs and favorable foreign currency exchange rate movements, partially offset
by an increase in income tax expense of $74 million from increases in the
United Kingdom corporate income tax rates in both 2021 and 2020. The decline
in earnings from renewable energy reflected a reduction in wind tax equity
investment earnings of $56 million, which included increased losses from pre-
existing tax equity investments of $165 million, largely attributable to the
February 2021 winter storms, partially offset by increased income tax benefits
from projects reaching commercial operation over the past twelve months.

Real estate brokerage after-tax earnings increased $12 million in 2021
compared to 2020. The increase was due to an increase in closed brokerage
transaction volumes in 2021, partially offset by lower mortgage volume due to
a decrease in refinance activity.

Corporate interest and other after-tax earnings increased $15 million in 2021
compared to 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase in state
income tax benefits and higher earnings from non-regulated energy services,
offset by higher operating expenses and higher interest expense from corporate
debt issued in 2020.

K-46

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing

A summary of revenues and earnings of our manufacturing, service and retailing
businesses follows (dollars in millions). Beginning January 31, 2023, this
group will include Pilot Travel Centers.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Percentage change

|

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

2022 vs 2021

|

|

|

2021 vs 2020

|

|  
  
Revenues

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Manufacturing

|

|

$

|

75,781

|

|

|

$

|

68,730

|

|

|

$

|

59,079

|

|

|

|

10.3

|

%

|

|

|

16.3

|

%

|  
  
Service and retailing

|

|

|

91,512

|

|

|

|

84,282

|

|

|

|

75,018

|

|

|

|

8.6

|

|

|

|

12.3

|

|  
  
|

|

$

|

167,293

|

|

|

$

|

153,012

|

|

|

$

|

134,097

|

|

|

|

9.3

|

|

|

|

14.1

|

|  
  
Pre-tax earnings

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Manufacturing

|

|

$

|

11,177

|

|

|

$

|

9,841

|

|

|

$

|

8,010

|

|

|

|

13.6

|

%

|

|

|

22.9

|

%

|  
  
Service and retailing

|

|

|

5,042

|

|

|

|

4,711

|

|

|

|

2,879

|

|

|

|

7.0

|

|

|

|

63.6

|

|  
  
|

|

|

16,219

|

|

|

|

14,552

|

|

|

|

10,889

|

|

|

|

11.5

|

|

|

|

33.6

|

|  
  
Income taxes and noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

3,707

|

|

|

|

3,432

|

|

|

|

2,589

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Net earnings*

|

|

$

|

12,512

|

|

|

$

|

11,120

|

|

|

$

|

8,300

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Effective income tax rate

|

|

|

22.2

|

%

|

|

|

23.0

|

%

|

|

|

23.3

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Pre-tax earnings as a percentage of revenues

|

|

|

9.7

|

%

|

|

|

9.5

|

%

|

|

|

8.1

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
* Excludes certain acquisition accounting expenses, which primarily related to the amortization of identified intangible assets recorded in connection with our business acquisitions. The after-tax acquisition accounting expenses excluded from earnings above were $681 million in 2022, $690 million in 2021 and $783 million in 2020. In 2020, net earnings also excluded after-tax goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $10.4 billion. These expenses are included in "Other" in the summary of earnings on page K-33 and in the "Other" earnings table on page K-56.

Manufacturing

Our manufacturing group includes a variety of industrial, building and
consumer products businesses. A summary of revenues and pre-tax earnings of
our manufacturing operations follows (dollars in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Percentage change

|

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

2022 vs 2021

|

|

|

2021 vs 2020

|

|  
  
Revenues

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Industrial products

|

|

$

|

30,824

|

|

|

$

|

28,176

|

|

|

$

|

25,667

|

|

|

|

9.4

|

%

|

|

|

9.8

|

%

|  
  
Building products

|

|

|

28,896

|

|

|

|

24,974

|

|

|

|

21,244

|

|

|

|

15.7

|

|

|

|

17.6

|

|  
  
Consumer products

|

|

|

16,061

|

|

|

|

15,580

|

|

|

|

12,168

|

|

|

|

3.1

|

|

|

|

28.0

|

|  
  
|

|

$

|

75,781

|

|

|

$

|

68,730

|

|

|

$

|

59,079

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Pre-tax earnings

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Industrial products

|

|

$

|

4,862

|

|

|

$

|

4,469

|

|

|

$

|

3,755

|

|

|

|

8.8

|

%

|

|

|

19.0

|

%

|  
  
Building products

|

|

|

4,789

|

|

|

|

3,390

|

|

|

|

2,858

|

|

|

|

41.3

|

|

|

|

18.6

|

|  
  
Consumer products

|

|

|

1,526

|

|

|

|

1,982

|

|

|

|

1,397

|

|

|

|

(23.0

|

)

|

|

|

41.9

|

|  
  
|

|

$

|

11,177

|

|

|

$

|

9,841

|

|

|

$

|

8,010

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Pre-tax earnings as a percentage of revenues

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Industrial products

|

|

|

15.8

|

%

|

|

|

15.9

|

%

|

|

|

14.6

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Building products

|

|

|

16.6

|

%

|

|

|

13.6

|

%

|

|

|

13.5

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Consumer products

|

|

|

9.5

|

%

|

|

|

12.7

|

%

|

|

|

11.5

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
K-47

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing (Continued)

Industrial products

The industrial products group includes metal products for aerospace, power and
general industrial markets (Precision Castparts Corp. ("PCC")), specialty
chemicals (The Lubrizol Corporation ("Lubrizol")), metal cutting tools/systems
(IMC International Metalworking Companies ("IMC")), and Marmon, which consists
of more than 100 autonomous manufacturing and service businesses, internally
aggregated into eleven groups, and includes equipment leasing for the rail,
intermodal tank container and mobile crane industries. The industrial products
group also includes equipment and systems for the livestock and agricultural
industries (CTB International) and a variety of industrial products for
diverse markets (Scott Fetzer and LiquidPower Specialty Products). Beginning
October 19, 2022, this group includes the structural steel fabrication
products business conducted through W&W|AFCO Steel, acquired in connection
with the Alleghany acquisition Additionally, the Alleghany businesses included
certain other smaller manufacturers that primarily became part of Marmon.

2022 versus 2021

Revenues of the industrial products group in 2022 increased $2.6 billion
(9.4%) and pre-tax earnings increased $393 million (8.8%) compared to 2021.
Pre-tax earnings as a percentage of revenues in 2022 was 15.8%, a decrease of
0.1 percentage points compared 2021.

PCC's revenues were $7.5 billion in 2022, an increase of $1.1 billion (16.5%)
compared to 2021. PCC derives significant revenues and earnings from aerospace
products. The revenue increase in 2022 was primarily attributable to higher
demand for aerospace products. Commercial aircraft delivery rates by original
equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") of narrow-body aircraft have rebounded since
the onset of the pandemic. Deliveries of wide-body aircraft remain relatively
low, in part, attributable to the pause in the Boeing 787 program. However,
Boeing resumed deliveries in the third quarter of 2022. Long-term industry
forecasts continue to show growth and strong demand for air travel and
aerospace products.

PCC's pre-tax earnings in 2022 were $1.2 billion, an increase of 1.6% compared
to 2021. PCC's results in 2022 were negatively affected by increased costs for
labor and training, materials and utilities and supply chain disruptions, as
well as a $59 million reduction in pension plan income. PCC management has
taken and will continue to take actions to improve operations, maintain safety
and prepare for increased demand for its products. Growth in PCC's revenues
and earnings will be predicated on the ability to successfully increase
production levels to match the expected growth in aerospace demand, including
managing through the current supply chain and employment environments.

Lubrizol's revenues were $6.7 billion in 2022, an increase of 3.2% compared to
2021. The revenue increase reflected higher average selling prices, partially
offset by lower volumes and adverse foreign currency translation effects from
the stronger U.S. Dollar. Sales volumes throughout 2022 were restricted by
effects of supply constraints for certain raw materials and the effects of
unplanned plant maintenance activities, both of which limited Lubrizol's
production capabilities. The increase in average selling prices was driven by
escalating prices for raw materials, including oil feedstocks, as well as for
utilities, packaging, shipping and freight costs. We believe supply chain and
required maintenance constraints are easing and that we can increase
production rates and sales volumes in 2023.

Lubrizol's pre-tax earnings in 2022 increased 48.6% compared to 2021. Pre-tax
earnings in 2022 included insurance recoveries of $242 million related to a
fire in 2019 at the Rouen, France facility and a fire in 2021 at the Rockton,
Illinois, facility compared to insurance recoveries of $55 million in 2021.
Earnings in 2022 also included aggregate losses related to the Rockton,
Illinois fire of $36 million compared to aggregate losses and asset impairment
charges in 2021 of $257 million related to the Rockton facility fire and an
underperforming business in the Advanced Materials product lines. Earnings in
2022 were also negatively impacted by rising raw material costs, lower sales
volumes, higher unplanned maintenance expenses, and by unfavorable foreign
currency translation effects, partially offset by higher selling prices.
Earnings in 2021 were negatively impacted by severe winter storms, which
caused industry-wide temporary facilities closures, including at our Additives
facilities, which experienced lost sales and incremental manufacturing and
other operating costs.

Marmon's revenues were $10.7 billion in 2022, an increase of $934 million
(9.6%) compared to 2021. Nearly all of Marmon's business groups generated
higher revenues in 2022, led by significant increases in the Transportation,
Retail Solutions, Metal Services and Crane groups, which contributed 82% of
the increase. These increases generally reflected higher volumes and prices in
our heavy-duty truck & trailer, shopping cart and store shelving businesses,
stronger demand in Canada for metal services and higher demand in the mining
and infrastructure markets. Revenues of most of Marmon's other groups,
particularly those serving the transit, oil & gas, utility and restaurant
markets, also increased in 2022, reflecting higher volumes. These increases
were partially offset by lower lease revenues in the Rail & Leasing group,
reflecting lower renewal rates and fewer third-party tank car sales.

K-48

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing (Continued)

Industrial products (Continued)

Marmon's pre-tax earnings in 2022 increased 11.3% compared to 2021. Earnings
in 2022 reflected increases in the Transportation, Metal Services, Retail,
Crane and several other business groups due to higher volumes and pricing,
which were partially offset by lower earnings from the Rail & Leasing group,
reflecting lower renewal rates, higher repair costs and losses of
approximately $90 million related to the shutdown in the second quarter of its
business in Russia.

IMC's revenues increased 4.5% to $3.7 billion in 2022 compared to 2021,
reflecting increased sales in most regions, partially offset by the foreign
currency translation effects of a stronger U.S. Dollar, lower sales in China
(attributable to the pandemic) and the effects the Russia-Ukraine conflict in
Europe. IMC's pre-tax earnings decreased 2.5% in 2022 compared to 2021,
primarily due to lower average gross sales margins, primarily attributable to
changes in product sales mix and higher raw material costs. Earnings were also
negatively affected by unfavorable foreign currency translation effects and
the Russian-Ukraine conflict.

2021 versus 2020

Revenues of the industrial products group in 2021 increased $2.5 billion
(9.8%) from 2020. Pre-tax earnings increased $714 million (19.0%) compared to
2020 and pre-tax earnings as a percentage of revenues in 2021 was 15.9%, an
increase of 1.3 percentage points compared to 2020.

PCC's revenues were $6.5 billion in 2021, a decrease of $853 million (11.6%)
compared to 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic contributed to material declines in
commercial air travel and OEM aircraft production in 2021 and 2020. PCC's
revenues were negatively impacted in both years by reduced aircraft production
levels, which reflected order delays and cancellations by airlines and
inventory reduction initiatives within the industry.

PCC's pre-tax earnings in 2021 were $1.2 billion, an increase of 78.8%
compared to 2020, which reflected significant restructuring costs and
inefficiencies associated with reduction in production. Asset impairment and
restructuring costs in 2020 were $295 million. The 2021 earnings increase also
reflected the actions taken by management in 2020 and 2021 to resize,
restructure and improve operations and to prepare for more normalized demand,
as well as from a decline in restructuring costs.

Lubrizol's revenues were $6.5 billion in 2021, an increase of 8.6% compared to
2020. The increase reflects higher average selling prices, driven by
significant increases in materials and other manufacturing costs, as well as
slightly higher volumes. Sales volumes in the Additives product lines in 2021
were negatively affected by the impacts of the severe winter weather events in
the first quarter, raw materials supply constraints and unplanned maintenance
in the second half of the year.

Lubrizol's pre-tax earnings in 2021 decreased 50.8% compared to 2020. The
earnings decline in 2021 included previously mentioned losses of $257 million
related to the Rockton, Illinois facility fire and asset impairment charges,
as well as the adverse effects of rising raw material costs and the winter
storms in 2021.

Marmon's revenues were $9.8 billion in 2021, an increase of $2.1 billion
(27.9%) compared to 2020, which was negatively impacted by the initial effects
of the pandemic. Revenues in 2021 from the Electrical, Metal Services and
Plumbing & Refrigeration groups increased 54% over 2020, accounting for over
half of the aggregate increase in Marmon's revenues. These increases were
attributable to higher volumes and prices, including the impact of
significantly higher average copper and metal prices. Revenues of most of
Marmon's other groups, particularly those serving the construction,
automotive, heavy-duty truck and restaurant markets, also increased in 2021,
reflecting higher volumes. These increases were partially offset by the impact
of divestitures and business closures in the Water Technologies and Retail
Solutions groups and lower lease revenues in the Rail & Leasing group,
reflecting fewer railcars on lease and changes in lease mix.

K-49

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing (Continued)

Industrial products (Continued)

Marmon's pre-tax earnings increased 40.3% in 2021 compared to 2020. The
increase was primarily due to earnings increases in the Electrical, Metal
Services and Plumbing & Refrigeration groups due to higher volumes and average
margins and relatively low earnings in 2020 attributable to the pandemic.
Earnings of several other business groups also increased attributable to
higher sales volumes, sales mix changes and lower restructuring charges, which
were partially offset by lower earnings from the Rail & Leasing and Water
Technologies groups.

IMC's revenues increased 19.5% in 2021 compared to 2020, reflecting improving
business conditions in most geographic regions and favorable foreign currency
translation effects. IMC's pre-tax earnings increased 47.7% in 2021 versus
2020, primarily attributable to higher customer demand, improved manufacturing
efficiencies, operating cost management saving initiatives and favorable
foreign currency translation effects.

Building products

The building products group includes manufactured and site-built home
construction and related lending and financial services (Clayton Homes),
flooring (Shaw), insulation, roofing and engineered products (Johns Manville),
bricks and masonry products (Acme Building Brands), paint and coatings
(Benjamin Moore) and residential and commercial construction and engineering
products and systems (MiTek).

2022 versus 2021

Revenues of the building products group increased $3.9 billion (15.7%) in 2022
and pre-tax earnings increased $1.4 billion (41.3%) compared to 2021. Pre-tax
earnings as percentages of revenues were 16.6% in 2022 and 13.6% in 2021.
During 2021 and much of 2022, our businesses experienced relatively strong
customer demand and higher sales volumes. Our building products businesses
benefited in recent years from the low interest rate environment. However,
interest rates in the U.S. increased significantly during 2022, which
contributed to slowing demand for new home construction in the fourth quarter.
As such, comparative revenues and earnings in the near term will likely
decline from current levels.

Clayton Homes' revenues were approximately $12.7 billion in 2022, an increase
of $2.2 billion (21.1%) over 2021. Revenues from home sales for the year
increased $2.1 billion (25.1%) in 2022 to approximately $10.4 billion,
primarily due to higher average selling prices. New home unit sales increased
6.2% in 2022, reflecting a 6.0% increase in factory-built manufactured home
unit sales and a 7.1% increase in site-built home unit sales. However, unit
sales in the fourth quarter of 2022 declined 3.9% from 2021, and our net order
backlog declined significantly during 2022. We expect the comparative decline
in unit sales to accelerate in the near term. Financial services revenues,
which include mortgage, insurance and interest income from lending activities,
increased 4.7% in 2022 compared to 2021. Loan balances, net of allowances for
credit losses, were approximately $21.3 billion as of December 31, 2022, an
increase of approximately $2.5 billion from December 31, 2021. Actual and
anticipated loan foreclosures rose during the fourth quarter of 2022.

Pre-tax earnings of Clayton Homes were approximately $2.4 billion in 2022, an
increase of $685 million (40.7%) compared to 2021. Earnings in 2022 reflected
higher home sales, gross margin rates and net interest income. As previously
mentioned, we expect unit home sales to decline in the near term and we
anticipate earnings will also decline in 2023 compared to 2022.

Aggregate revenues of our other building products businesses were
approximately $16.2 billion in 2022, an increase of 11.8% versus 2021. The
increase was primarily due to higher average selling prices, and to a lesser
extent, from higher unit volumes in certain product lines and product mix
changes. Significant cost inflation in 2021, that continued through 2022,
largely drove the higher selling prices.

Pre-tax earnings of the other building products businesses were approximately
$2.4 billion in 2022, an increase of 41.9% over 2021. Pre-tax earnings as a
percentage of revenues was 15.0% in 2022, a 3.2 percentage point increase
compared to 2021. Earnings in 2022 benefitted from higher selling prices and
strong demand in certain product categories, as well as an increase in gains
from certain business divestitures and asset sales and reduced impairment and
restructuring charges. The increase in earnings in 2022 also reflected the
negative impact of severe winter storms in the first quarter of 2021, which
reduced sales and increased production and other operating costs in 2021.

K-50

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing (Continued)

Building products (Continued)

2021 versus 2020

Revenues of the building products group increased $3.7 billion (17.6%) in 2021
and pre-tax earnings increased $532 million (18.6%) compared to 2020. Pre-tax
earnings as percentages of revenues were 13.6% in 2021 and 13.5% in 2020.
During 2021, our businesses experienced strong customer demand and higher
sales volumes. We also experienced various forms of supply chain disruptions
that contributed to considerable raw material and logistics cost inflation and
supply constraints.

Clayton Homes' revenues were approximately $10.5 billion in 2021, an increase
of $1.9 billion (22.2%) over 2020. Revenues from home sales increased $1.8
billion (26.5%) in 2021 to approximately $8.3 billion, reflecting increased
revenue per home sold, changes in sales mix and a net increase in new units
sold. Unit sales of site-built homes increased 15.8% in 2021, while factory-
built manufactured home unit sales increased 1.5%. Site-built home unit sales
were constrained by longer construction periods arising from supply chain
constraints and labor shortages. Financial services revenues increased 7.8% in
2021 compared to 2020. Loan balances, net of allowances for credit losses,
were approximately $18.8 billion as of December 31, 2021, an increase of
approximately $1.7 billion compared to December 31, 2020.

Pre-tax earnings of Clayton Homes were approximately $1.7 billion in 2021, an
increase of $440 million (35.3%) compared to 2020. Earnings in 2021 reflected
higher earnings from home sales, mortgage originations, net interest income
and lower provisions for expected credit losses, partially offset by the
impact of rising manufacturing and supply chain costs. The provision for
expected credit losses in 2020 was unusually high and included provisions for
the expected impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Aggregate revenues of our other building products businesses were
approximately $14.5 billion in 2021, an increase of 14.4% versus 2020. The
increase was primarily due to higher average selling prices driven by
significantly higher input and supply chain costs, as well as higher unit
volumes for paint and coatings, flooring, insulation, roofing and other
engineered products.

Pre-tax earnings of the other building products businesses were approximately
$1.7 billion in 2021, an increase of 5.7% over 2020. Pre-tax earnings as a
percentage of revenues were 11.8% in 2021, a 1.0 percentage point decrease
compared to 2020. While customer demand in 2021 was generally strong, reduced
availability of materials and other product inputs from supply chain
disruptions negatively affected operating results. In addition, higher
restructuring and impairment charges contributed to the reduction in our pre-
tax margin rates.

Consumer products

The consumer products group includes leisure vehicles (Forest River), several
apparel and footwear operations (including Fruit of the Loom, Garan, H.H.
Brown Shoe Group and Brooks Sports) and a manufacturer of high-performance
alkaline batteries (Duracell). This group also includes custom picture framing
products (Larson-Juhl), jewelry products (Richline) and beginning October 19,
2022, Jazwares, LLC ("Jazwares"), a global toy company acquired in connection
with the Alleghany acquisition.

2022 versus 2021

Consumer products group revenues increased $481 million (3.1%) in 2022 versus
2021, reflecting an 8.0% increase from Forest River and the impact of the
Jazwares acquisition, substantially offset by lower apparel and footwear and
Duracell revenues (4.7% in the aggregate). In the fourth quarter of 2022,
consumer products revenues before the impact of the Jazwares acquisition
declined 15.7%, driven by significant declines in recreational vehicle unit
sales. Revenues of Forest River increased 8.0% in 2022 compared to 2021, while
apparel and footwear and Duracell revenues decreased 4.5% and 5.2%,
respectively. The declines in apparel and footwear revenues were driven by
lower volumes, as major retailers reduced orders in response to rising
inventories. Duracell's revenue decline was primarily due to lower volumes and
unfavorable foreign currency translation effects of the stronger U.S. Dollar.

K-51

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing (Continued)

Consumer products (Continued)

Consumer products group pre-tax earnings declined $456 million (23.0%) in 2022
compared to 2021 and as a percentage of revenues in 2022 decreased 3.2
percentage points to 9.5%. The earnings decline reflected lower aggregate
earnings from the apparel and footwear businesses (68.0%) and Duracell
(30.6%), partially offset by higher earnings from Forest River (7.6%).

Our apparel businesses were negatively affected in 2022 by low sales volumes,
reduced manufacturing efficiencies and higher input costs, including raw
materials, freight, labor and other operating costs. The reductions in sales
volumes and supply chain issues in 2021 and 2022 have also elevated our
current inventories. We currently believe retailers will continue to constrain
purchases in the near term and that our sales volumes and earnings will
continue to be negatively affected. We are taking measures to right-size our
operations for the long-term and reduce product inventories to more
appropriate levels. Duracell's earnings in 2022 declined, primarily due to
lower sales, cost inflation and foreign currency translation effects.

Earnings from Forest River increased in 2022, primarily due to the increase in
unit sales in the first half of the year and higher average selling prices,
partly offset by higher materials costs. However, sales volumes, revenues and
earnings declined over the second half of the year compared to the elevated
levels in the first half of 2022 and in 2021. We currently expect demand for
recreational vehicles will continue to slow and Forest River's comparative
revenues and earnings to decline in 2023, particularly over the first half of
the year.

2021 versus 2020

Consumer products group revenues increased $3.4 billion (28.0%) in 2021 versus
2020. Revenues from Forest River increased 40.2% in 2021 compared to 2020,
driven by a 27.6% increase in recreational vehicle unit sales and higher
average selling prices, primarily due to significant increases in
manufacturing costs.

Revenues of several of our other consumer products businesses were
significantly higher in 2021 as compared to 2020. The initial impacts of the
pandemic in the first half of 2020 from temporary retail store closures and
reduced demand had a severe impact on most of these businesses. Apparel and
footwear revenues increased 25.3% in 2021 compared to 2020, reflecting
significant increases in unit sales, partly attributable to inventory
restocking by certain customers, and from increased consumer demand. Revenues
from Richline increased 39.9%, while revenues from Duracell increased 2.4%.

Consumer products group pre-tax earnings increased $585 million (41.9%) in
2021 compared to 2020 and as a percentage of revenues in 2021 increased 1.2
percentage points to 12.7%. The increase reflected significant earnings
increases at many of our businesses. However, our consumer products
businesses, particularly the apparel and footwear businesses, also experienced
significant cost increases and supply chain disruptions, causing pre-tax
margins in the second half of 2021 to be 1.1 percentage points lower than in
the first half of the year.

Service and retailing

A summary of revenues and pre-tax earnings of our service and retailing
businesses follows (dollars in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Percentage change

|

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

2022 vs 2021

|

|

|

2021 vs 2020

|

|  
  
Revenues

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Service

|

|

$

|

19,006

|

|

|

$

|

15,872

|

|

|

$

|

12,346

|

|

|

|

19.7

|

%

|

|

|

28.6

|

%

|  
  
Retailing

|

|

|

19,297

|

|

|

|

18,960

|

|

|

|

15,832

|

|

|

|

1.8

|

|

|

|

19.8

|

|  
  
McLane

|

|

|

53,209

|

|

|

|

49,450

|

|

|

|

46,840

|

|

|

|

7.6

|

|

|

|

5.6

|

|  
  
|

|

$

|

91,512

|

|

|

$

|

84,282

|

|

|

$

|

75,018

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Pre-tax earnings

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Service

|

|

$

|

3,047

|

|

|

$

|

2,672

|

|

|

$

|

1,600

|

|

|

|

14.0

|

%

|

|

|

67.0

|

%

|  
  
Retailing

|

|

|

1,724

|

|

|

|

1,809

|

|

|

|

1,028

|

|

|

|

(4.7

|

)

|

|

|

76.0

|

|  
  
McLane

|

|

|

271

|

|

|

|

230

|

|

|

|

251

|

|

|

|

17.8

|

|

|

|

(8.4

|

)

|  
  
|

|

$

|

5,042

|

|

|

$

|

4,711

|

|

|

$

|

2,879

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Pre-tax earnings as a percentage of revenues

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Service

|

|

|

16.0

|

%

|

|

|

16.8

|

%

|

|

|

13.0

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Retailing

|

|

|

8.9

|

%

|

|

|

9.5

|

%

|

|

|

6.5

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
McLane

|

|

|

0.5

|

%

|

|

|

0.5

|

%

|

|

|

0.5

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
K-52

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing (Continued)

Service

Our service group consists of several businesses. The largest of these
businesses are NetJets and FlightSafety (aviation services), which offer
shared ownership programs for general aviation aircraft and high technology
training products and services to operators of aircraft, and TTI, a
distributor of electronics components. Our other service businesses franchise
and service a network of quick service restaurants (Dairy Queen), lease
transportation equipment (XTRA) and furniture (CORT), provide third party
logistics services that primarily serve the petroleum and chemical industries
(Charter Brokerage), distribute electronic news, multimedia and regulatory
filings (Business Wire) and operate a television station in Miami, Florida
(WPLG). Beginning, October 19, 2022, this group includes IPS Integrated
Project Services, LLC (IPS), a provider of various services in facilities
construction management.

2022 versus 2021

Service group revenues increased $3.1 billion (19.7%) in 2022 compared to
2021, primarily attributable to revenue increases from TTI and the aviation
services businesses, as well as the impact of the IPS acquisition. Revenues
from TTI increased 17.4% in 2022 versus 2021. However, in the third quarter,
new orders began to slow in certain regions and markets and the slowing of new
orders was observed across nearly all regions in the fourth quarter. The
slowing of electronic components demand is in part attributable to elevated
inventory levels within the supply chain. Revenues from aviation services
increased 18.2% in 2022 compared to 2021. The revenue increase reflected year-
to-date increases in training hours (11%), customer flight hours (9%), most of
which occurred in the first half of the year, and fuel surcharges to customers
due to the increase in customer flight hours and significant increases in fuel
prices. These increases were partially offset by changes in sales mix.

Pre-tax earnings of our service business group increased $375 million (14.0%)
in 2022 to $3.0 billion. Pre-tax earnings of the group as a percentage of
revenues were 16.0% in 2022, a decrease of 0.8 percentage points compared to
2021. The earnings increase in 2022 was attributable to TTI (19.4%) and
aviation services (3.4%), as well as increased earnings from several of our
smaller services businesses. The increase from TTI was primarily attributable
to the increase in sales and higher average gross margin rates, partially
offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects in 2022 and a favorable legal
settlement in 2021. The earnings increase from aviation services in 2022
compared to 2021 was primarily attributable to improved product sales margins,
increased training hours and lower restructuring costs at FlightSafety.
Earnings at our smaller services companies increased $106 million (19.3%) over
2021, reflecting a combination of higher revenues and operating cost leverage.

2021 versus 2020

Service group revenues increased $3.5 billion (28.6%) in 2021 compared to
2020, primarily attributable to higher revenues from TTI and the aviation
services businesses. Revenues from TTI increased 37.4% in 2021 versus 2020,
primarily attributable to significantly higher volumes across all significant
markets and product categories, and to a lesser extent, higher average prices
and changes in sales mix. Customer demand accelerated throughout 2021, as
customers attempted to maintain adequate inventories in response to high
demand for components in end products and effects of supply chain disruptions.
Revenues from aviation services increased 27.5% in 2021 over low 2020 levels,
primarily due to higher training hours (24%) and customer flight hours (70%).

Pre-tax earnings of our service business group increased $1.1 billion (67.0%)
to $2.7 billion. Pre-tax earnings of the group as a percentage of revenues was
16.8% in 2021, an increase of 3.8 percentage points compared to 2020. Earnings
at nearly all service businesses increased in 2021 compared to 2020, with the
largest increases from TTI, the aviation services businesses and the XTRA
leasing business. TTI's earnings increase was primarily attributable to
increases in sales volumes, as well as from improved operating cost leverage,
changes in sales mix and a gain from a legal settlement. The increase in
earnings from aviation services was attributable to the favorable effects of
higher volume, changes in business mix, increased operating efficiencies,
lower impairment charges and the effects of past restructuring efforts, partly
offset by higher subcontractor costs attributable to the significant increase
in flight demand.

Retailing

Our largest retailing business is Berkshire Hathaway Automotive, Inc. ("BHA"),
which represented 65% of our combined retailing revenue in 2022. BHA consists
of over 80 auto dealerships that sell new and pre-owned automobiles and offer
repair services and related products. BHA also operates two insurance
businesses, two auto auctions and an automotive fluid maintenance products
distributor. Our retailing businesses also include four home furnishings
businesses (Nebraska Furniture Mart, R.C. Willey, Star Furniture and
Jordan's), which sell furniture, appliances, flooring and electronics. The
home furnishings group represented 20% of the combined retailing revenues in
2022.

K-53

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing (Continued)

Retailing (Continued)

Other retailing businesses include three jewelry businesses (Borsheims,
Helzberg and Ben Bridge), See's Candies (confectionary products), Pampered
Chef (high quality kitchen tools), Oriental Trading Company (party supplies,
school supplies and toys and novelties) and Detlev Louis Motorrad ("Louis"), a
retailer of motorcycle accessories based in Germany.

2022 versus 2021

Retailing group revenues in 2022 increased $337 million (1.8%) compared to
2021, reflecting an increase at BHA, partially offset by combined lower
revenues from our other retailers. BHA's revenues in 2022 increased 6.1%
compared to 2021. Revenues from new and used retail vehicle sales increased
5.9% compared to 2021, attributable to higher average vehicle transaction
prices, partly offset by a 4.5% decline in total retail units sold. New
vehicle unit sales continue to be constrained by relatively low new vehicle
production, although production gradually trended higher during 2022. Revenues
from BHA's service and repair business increased 11.1% versus 2021. Revenues
of the home furnishings group declined 2.6%, while revenues of all other
retailers declined 8.9%, primarily due to lower sales at Pampered Chef.

Pre-tax earnings in 2022 of the retailing group decreased $85 million (4.7%)
from 2021 and the pre-tax margin rate decreased 0.6 percentage points to 8.9%.
BHA's pre-tax earnings increased 18.4%, primarily due to increases in vehicle
gross profit margins. BHA's comparative vehicle gross profit margin rates
began to accelerate during the second half of 2021, attributable to low
available inventory. BHA's vehicle gross margin rates peaked in the first half
of 2022 and have since declined. Aggregate pre-tax earnings for the remainder
of our retailing group decreased $233 million (23.2%) in 2022 compared to
2021, primarily due to reduced earnings from the home furnishings group, See's
Candies and Pampered Chef.

2021 versus 2020

Retailing group revenues in 2021 increased $3.1 billion (19.8%) compared to
2020. BHA's revenues increased 19.0%, with vehicle sales, service and repair,
and finance and service contract revenues each increasing versus 2020.
Revenues from vehicle sales increased $1.7 billion (20.7%), primarily due to
higher average selling prices, as well as a 2.7% increase in units sold.
However, new vehicle unit sales in the second half of 2021 declined 18%
compared to the second half of 2020, reflecting significant new vehicle supply
shortages at manufacturers attributable to the global computer chip shortages
and other supply chain disruptions. Home furnishings group revenues increased
22.0%, attributable to higher consumer demand and higher average selling
prices, driven by higher inventory and freight costs.

Pre-tax earnings of the retailing group increased $781 million (76.0%) in 2021
from 2020 and the pre-tax margin rate increased 3.0 percentage points to 9.5%.
BHA's pre-tax earnings increased 47.5%, primarily due to increased vehicle
sales margins and higher earnings from finance and service contract
activities. In addition, earnings in 2021 benefitted from lower floorplan
interest expense, attributable to significant declines in inventory levels,
and from ongoing operating cost control efforts.

Home furnishings group pre-tax earnings increased 67.6% in 2021 versus 2020,
reflecting generally higher average gross margin rates and sales mix changes
and cost control efforts, partly offset by higher personnel costs. Aggregate
pre-tax earnings for the remainder of our retailing group increased $321
million in 2021 compared to 2020. The initial effects of the pandemic in 2020
were severe for most of our other retailers due to the restricted operations
at many of those businesses. Results in 2021 also benefitted from relatively
strong consumer demand and the effects of restructuring efforts in 2020.

K-54

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing (Continued)

Retailing (Continued)

McLane

McLane Company, Inc. ("McLane") operates a wholesale distribution business
that provides grocery and non-food consumer products to retailers and
convenience stores ("grocery") and to restaurants ("foodservice"). McLane also
operates businesses that are wholesale distributors of distilled spirits, wine
and beer ("beverage"). The grocery and foodservice businesses generate high
sales and very low profit margins. These businesses have several significant
customers, including Walmart, 7-Eleven, Yum! Brands and others. Grocery sales
comprised about 62% of McLane's consolidated sales in 2022 with food service
comprising most of the remainder. A curtailment of purchasing by any of its
significant customers could have an adverse impact on periodic revenues and
earnings.

2022 versus 2021

Revenues of $53.2 billion in 2022 increased $3.8 billion (7.6%) compared to
2021. Revenues from the grocery business increased 4.4%, while revenues from
the foodservice and beverage businesses increased 14.1% and 6.0%,
respectively.

Pre-tax earnings increased $41 million (17.8%) in 2022 as compared to 2021.
The increase reflected slightly higher gross margin rates in the grocery and
foodservice businesses, partly offset by higher personnel costs, fuel expense
and insurance costs. McLane's grocery and food service operating results
continue to be adversely affected by supply chain constraints, including the
effects of labor and truck driver shortages, high fuel costs and high
inventory costs.

2021 versus 2020

Revenues increased $2.6 billion (5.6%) in 2021 compared to 2020. Revenues from
the grocery business increased 1.5%, while revenues from the foodservice and
beverage businesses increased 13.1% and 17.8%, respectively. The foodservice
business was significantly impacted by pandemic-related restaurant closures in
2020.

Pre-tax earnings decreased $21 million (8.4%) in 2021 as compared to 2020. The
decrease reflected significant increases in personnel, contract transportation
and fuel costs, which more than offset the favorable impact of higher sales
and slightly higher gross sales margins. McLane's grocery and food service
operations were significantly affected in 2021 by upstream supply chain
constraints, including the effects of labor and truck driver shortages, which
contributed to higher inventory costs, and disruptions in inventory
availability. These upstream supply chain effects, together with the truck
driver and warehouse personnel shortages that we experienced, adversely
affected our customer service levels and reduced our operating efficiencies.
In response, hiring and wage and benefits costs increased significantly in
2021. The increase in fuel costs was primarily attributable to significant
increases in petroleum prices.

Investment and Derivative Contract Gains (Losses)

A summary of investment and derivative contract gains (losses) follows
(dollars in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Investment gains (losses)

|

|

$

|

(67,623

|

)

|

|

$

|

77,576

|

|

|

$

|

40,905

|  
  
Derivative contract gains (losses)

|

|

|

(276

|

)

|

|

|

966

|

|

|

|

(159

|

)  
  
Gains (losses) before income taxes and noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(67,899

|

)

|

|

|

78,542

|

|

|

|

40,746

|  
  
Income taxes and noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(14,287

|

)

|

|

|

16,202

|

|

|

|

9,155

|  
  
Net earnings (loss)

|

|

$

|

(53,612

|

)

|

|

$

|

62,340

|

|

|

$

|

31,591

|  
  
Effective income tax rate

|

|

|

20.9

|

%

|

|

|

20.4

|

%

|

|

|

21.7

|

%  
  
K-55

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Investment and Derivative Contract Gains (Losses) (Continued)

Investment gains (losses)

Unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in market prices of our
investments in equity securities are included in our reported earnings, which
significantly increases the volatility of our periodic net earnings due to the
magnitude of our equity securities portfolio and the inherent volatility of
equity securities prices. Unrealized gains and losses also include the effects
of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on investments in non-U.S.
issuers that are held by our U.S.-based subsidiaries. Pre-tax investment gains
and losses included net unrealized losses of approximately $63.1 billion in
2022 and gains of approximately $76.4 billion in 2021 and $55.0 billion in
2020 attributable to changes in market prices of equity securities we held at
the end of each year. In each year, we also recorded pre-tax gains and losses
from market value changes during each year on equity securities sold during
such year, including losses of $3.9 billion in 2022, gains of $1.0 billion in
2021 and losses of $14.0 billion in 2020. Taxable investment gains on equity
securities sold, which is generally the difference between sales proceeds and
the original cost basis of the securities sold, were $769 million in 2022,
$3.6 billion in 2021 and $6.2 billion in 2020.

We believe that investment gains and losses, whether realized from sales or
unrealized from changes in market prices, are often meaningless in terms of
understanding our reported consolidated earnings or evaluating our periodic
economic performance. We continue to believe the investment gains and losses
recorded in earnings in any given period has little analytical or predictive
value.

Derivative contract gains (losses)

Derivative contract gains and losses include the changes in fair value of our
few remaining equity index put option contract liabilities. The periodic
changes in the fair values of these liabilities are recorded in earnings.
Substantially all of our contracts have expired and our exposure to loss in
the future is insignificant.

Other

A summary of after-tax other earnings follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Equity method earnings

|

|

$

|

1,528

|

|

|

$

|

804

|

|

|

$

|

615

|  
  
Acquisition accounting expenses

|

|

|

(681

|

)

|

|

|

(690

|

)

|

|

|

(783

|

)  
  
Goodwill and intangible asset impairments

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(10,381

|

)  
  
Corporate interest expense, before foreign currency effects

|

|

|

(269

|

)

|

|

|

(305

|

)

|

|

|

(334

|

)  
  
Foreign currency exchange rate gains (losses) on Berkshire  
and BHFC non-U.S. Dollar senior notes

|

|

|

1,263

|

|

|

|

955

|

|

|

|

(764

|

)  
  
Other earnings

|

|

|

196

|

|

|

|

474

|

|

|

|

279

|  
  
|

|

$

|

2,037

|

|

|

$

|

1,238

|

|

|

$

|

(11,368

|

)  
  
After-tax equity method earnings include our proportionate share of earnings
attributable to our investments in Kraft Heinz, Pilot, Occidental Petroleum
and Berkadia. Equity method earnings increased $724 million in 2022 versus
2021, primarily due to higher earnings from Kraft Heinz and Pilot and from the
inclusion of Occidental Petroleum, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2022.
See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our after-tax earnings from Kraft Heinz were $550 million in 2022, $317
million in 2021 and $170 million in 2020, which included our after-tax share
of goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges recorded by Kraft
Heinz of $157 million in 2022, $259 million in 2021 and $611 million in 2020.
Our after-tax earnings from Occidental in 2022 were $258 million and our
after-tax earnings from Pilot increased $267 million in 2022 compared to 2021.
As a result of the increase in our ownership in Pilot to 80% on January 31,
2023, we discontinued the use of the equity method on that date. See Note 26
to the Consolidated financial Statements.

After-tax acquisition accounting expenses include charges arising from the
application of the acquisition method in connection with certain of
Berkshire's past business acquisitions. Such charges arise primarily from the
amortization or impairment of intangible assets recorded in connection with
those business acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible asset impairments in 2020
included after-tax charges of $9.8 billion attributable to impairments of
goodwill and certain identifiable intangible assets that were recorded in
connection with our acquisition of PCC in 2016. See Other Critical Accounting
Policies on page K-62 for additional details.

K-56

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Other (Continued)

Foreign currency exchange rate gains and losses pertain to the Berkshire and
BHFC Euro, Great Britain Pound and Japanese Yen denominated debt. Changes in
foreign currency exchange rates produce unrealized gains and losses from the
periodic revaluation of these liabilities into U.S. Dollars. In 2022, we
recorded foreign currency exchange rate gains on these debt issues, due to
strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, which reduced the U.S Dollar carrying value
of the debt. The gains and losses recorded in any given period can be
significant due to the magnitude of the borrowings and the inherent volatility
in foreign currency exchange rates. Other earnings consist primarily of
Berkshire parent company investment income and corporate expenses, other
intercompany interest income where the interest expense is included in
earnings of the operating businesses and other unallocated income and income
taxes.

Financial Condition

Our consolidated balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity and
a very strong capital base. Consolidated shareholders' equity at December 31,
2022 was $472.4 billion, a decrease of $33.8 billion since December 31, 2021.
Net loss attributable to Berkshire shareholders was $22.8 billion and included
after-tax losses on our investments of approximately $53.4 billion. Over each
of the last three years, investment gains and losses from changes in the
market prices of our investments in equity securities produced significant
volatility in our earnings.

Berkshire's common stock repurchase program, as amended, permits Berkshire to
repurchase its Class A and Class B shares at prices below Berkshire's
intrinsic value, as conservatively determined by Warren Buffett, Berkshire's
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Charlie Munger, Vice
Chairman of the Board. The program does not specify a maximum number of shares
to be repurchased and does not require any specified repurchase amount. The
program is expected to continue indefinitely. We will not repurchase our stock
if it reduces the total amount of Berkshire's consolidated cash, cash
equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bill holdings below $30 billion. Financial
strength and redundant liquidity will always be of paramount importance at
Berkshire. Berkshire paid $7.9 billion during 2022 to repurchase shares of its
Class A and Class B common stock.

At December 31, 2022, our insurance and other businesses held cash, cash
equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bills of $125.0 billion, which included $94.7
billion in U.S. Treasury Bills. Investments in equity and fixed maturity
securities (excluding our investments in Kraft Heinz and Occidental common
stock) were $333.9 billion. During 2022, we paid cash of $67.9 billion to
acquire equity securities and we received proceeds of $33.7 billion from sales
of equity securities. On October 19, 2022, we acquired Alleghany Corporation
for $11.5 billion, which held cash and investments of $19.7 billion as of the
acquisition date. On January 31, 2023, we acquired an additional 41.4%
interest in Pilot for approximately $8.2 billion, which was based on Pilot's
unaudited earnings in 2022 and its net debt as of December 31, 2022 and is
subject to post-closing adjustments following the completion of the audit of
Pilot's 2022 consolidated financial statements.

Our consolidated borrowings at December 31, 2022 were $122.7 billion, of which
approximately 94% were by the Berkshire parent company, BHFC, BNSF and BHE and
its subsidiaries. During 2022, Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries
issued term debt of approximately $12.7 billion in the aggregate and paid
approximately $3.9 billion of maturing senior debt. Expected principal and
interest payments related to our consolidated borrowings in each of the next
five years are (in billions): $17.4 in 2023; $10.4 in 2024; $11.0 in 2025;
$8.7 in 2026; and $8.1 in 2027.

Berkshire parent company debt outstanding at December 31, 2022 was $21.4
billion, substantially unchanged from December 31, 2021. In 2022, Berkshire
issued an aggregate ¥243.5 billion (approximately $1.94 billion) of senior
notes with maturity dates ranging from 2025 to 2052 and a weighted average
interest rate of 0.8%. Berkshire's borrowings decreased $1.4 billion during
2022 from changes in foreign currency exchange rates on its non-U.S. Dollar
denominated debt.

Berkshire's insurance and other subsidiary outstanding borrowings were
approximately $25.1 billion at December 31, 2022, an increase of $7.3 billion
since December 31, 2021. Senior note borrowings of BHFC, a wholly-owned
financing subsidiary, were approximately $17.9 billion at December 31, 2022,
an increase of $4.8 billion since December 31, 2021, reflecting the issuance
of debt, repayments of maturing debt ($775 million) and reductions in the
carrying value of non-U.S. denominated debt due to foreign currency exchange
rate changes ($300 million). In 2022, BHFC issued $4.5 billion of senior notes
maturing in 2027, 2032 and 2052 with a weighted average interest rate of 3.4%
and €1.25 billion (approximately $1.4 billion) of senior notes maturing in
2030 and 2034 with a weighted average interest rate of 1.8%. BHFC's borrowings
are used to fund a portion of loans originated and acquired by Clayton Homes
and equipment held for lease by our railcar leasing business. Berkshire
guarantees BHFC's senior notes for the full and timely payment of principal
and interest. Subsidiary borrowings as of December 31, 2022 included
approximately $2.3 billion attributable to Alleghany and its subsidiaries.

K-57

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Financial Condition (Continued)

BNSF's outstanding debt was $23.5 billion as of December 31, 2022, an increase
of $233 million from December 31, 2021. In 2022, BNSF issued $1.0 billion of
4.45% debentures due in 2053 and repaid approximately $900 million of term
debt. Outstanding borrowings of BHE and its subsidiaries were $52.8 billion at
December 31, 2022, an increase of $1.0 billion since December 31, 2021. In
2022, BHE issued $1.0 billion of 4.6% senior notes due in 2053. During 2022,
BHE subsidiaries issued approximately $3.0 billion of term debt with a
weighted average interest rate of 5.2% at December 31, 2022 and maturity dates
ranging from 2024 to 2053. Berkshire does not guarantee the repayment of debt
issued by BNSF, BHE or any of their subsidiaries.

In each of the past three years, our diverse group of businesses generated net
operating cash flows between $37 billion and $40 billion. Our consolidated
capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment and equipment held for
lease were $15.5 billion in 2022, which included capital expenditures by our
railroad, utilities and energy businesses (BNSF and BHE) of $11.0 billion.
BNSF and BHE maintain very large investments in capital assets (property,
plant and equipment) and will regularly make significant capital expenditures
in the normal course of business. We forecast capital expenditures of these
two operations will approximate $13.7 billion in 2023.

On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 ("the 2022 act") was
signed into law. The 2022 act contains numerous provisions, including a 15%
corporate alternative minimum income tax on "adjusted financial statement
income", expanded tax credits for clean energy incentives and a 1% excise tax
on corporate stock repurchases. The provisions of the 2022 act become
effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2022. On December 27,
2022, the IRS and Department of Treasury issued initial guidance for taxpayers
subject to the corporate alternative minimum tax. The guidance addresses
several, but not all, issues that needed clarification. The IRS and Department
of Treasury intend to release additional guidance in the future. We will
continue to evaluate the impact of the Act as more guidance becomes available.
We currently do not expect a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements.

Contractual Obligations

We are party to other contracts associated with ongoing business activities,
which will result in cash payments to counterparties in future periods.
Certain obligations are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, such as
operating lease liabilities and shared aircraft repurchase liabilities of
NetJets. Estimated payments of these liabilities in each of the next five
years are (in billions): $1.8 in 2023; $1.6 in 2024; $1.4 in 2025; $1.3 in
2026; and $1.5 in 2027.

We are also obligated to pay claims arising from our property and casualty
insurance companies. Such liabilities, including amounts from retroactive
reinsurance, were approximately $143 billion at December 31, 2022. We
currently forecast claim payments in 2023 of approximately $35 billion with
respect to claims occurring prior to 2023. Additionally, we estimate net
payments of approximately $2 billion in 2023 for life, health and annuity
benefits under contracts. However, the timing and amount of the payments under
insurance and reinsurance contracts are contingent upon the outcome of future
events. Actual payments will likely vary, perhaps materially, from the
forecasted payments, as well as from the liabilities currently recorded in our
Consolidated Balance Sheet. We anticipate that these payments will be funded
by operating cash flows.

Other obligations pertaining to the acquisition of goods or services in the
future, such as certain purchase obligations, are not currently reflected in
the Consolidated Financial Statements and will be recognized in future periods
as the goods are delivered or services are provided. As of December 31, 2022,
the largest categories of our long-term contractual obligations primarily
related to fuel, capacity, transmission and maintenance contracts and capital
expenditure commitments of BHE and BNSF, aircraft purchase commitments of
NetJets and certain raw materials purchase commitments. We estimate future
payments associated with these contracts over the next five years of
approximately $24 billion, including $12 billion in 2023.

Critical Accounting Policies

Certain accounting policies require us to make estimates and judgments in
determining the amounts reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Such estimates and judgments necessarily involve varying and possibly
significant degrees of uncertainty. Accordingly, certain amounts currently
recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements will likely be adjusted in
the future based on new available information and changes in other facts and
circumstances. A discussion of our principal accounting policies that required
the application of significant judgments as of December 31, 2022 follows.

K-58

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Property and casualty insurance unpaid losses

We record liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (also
referred to as "gross unpaid losses" or "claim liabilities") based upon
estimates of the ultimate amounts payable for loss events occurring on or
before the balance sheet date. The timing and amount of ultimate loss payments
are contingent upon, among other things, the timing of claim reporting from
insureds and ceding companies and the final determination of the loss amount
through the loss adjustment and settlement process. We use a variety of
techniques in establishing claim liabilities, which may require significant
judgments and assumptions.

As of the balance sheet date, recorded claim liabilities include estimates for
reported claims and for incurred-but-not-reported ("IBNR") claims. The period
between the loss occurrence date and loss settlement date is the "claim-tail."
Property claims usually have relatively short claim-tails, absent litigation.
Casualty claims usually have longer claim-tails, occasionally extending for
decades. Casualty claims may be more susceptible to litigation and the impact
of changing contract interpretations. The legal environment and judicial
process further contribute to extending claim-tails.

Our consolidated claim liabilities, including liabilities from retroactive
reinsurance contracts, as of December 31, 2022 were approximately $143
billion, of which 78% related to GEICO and the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance
Group. Additional information regarding significant uncertainties inherent in
the processes and techniques for estimating unpaid losses of these businesses
follows.

GEICO

GEICO predominantly writes private passenger automobile insurance. As of
December 31, 2022, GEICO's gross unpaid losses were $24.8 billion and claim
liabilities, net of reinsurance recoverable, were $23.8 billion. GEICO's claim
reserving methodologies produce liability estimates based upon the individual
claims. The key assumptions affecting our liability estimates include
projections of ultimate claim counts ("frequency") and average loss per claim
("severity"). We utilize a combination of several actuarial estimation
methods, including Bornhuetter-Ferguson and chain-ladder methodologies.

Claim liability estimates for automobile liability coverages (such as bodily
injury ("BI"), uninsured motorists, and personal injury protection) are more
uncertain due to the longer claim-tails, so we establish additional case
development estimates. As of December 31, 2022, case development liabilities
averaged approximately 38% of the case reserves. We select case development
factors through analysis of the overall adequacy of historical case
liabilities.

IBNR claim liabilities are based on projections of the ultimate number of
claims expected (reported and unreported) for each significant coverage. We
use historical claim count data to develop age-to-age projections of the
ultimate counts by quarterly accident period, from which we deduct reported
claims to produce the number of unreported claims. We estimate the average
costs per unreported claim and apply such estimates to the unreported claim
counts, producing an IBNR liability estimate. We may record additional IBNR
estimates when actuarial techniques are difficult to apply.

We test the adequacy of the aggregate claim liabilities using one or more
actuarial projections based on claim closure models and paid and incurred loss
triangles. Each type of projection analyzes loss occurrence data for claims
occurring in a given period and projects the ultimate cost.

Our claim liability estimates recorded at the end of 2021 were reduced by $653
million during 2022, which produced a corresponding increase to pre-tax
earnings. The assumptions used to estimate liabilities at December 31, 2022
reflect the most recent frequency and severity estimates. Future development
of recorded liabilities will depend on whether actual frequency and severity
of claims are more or less than anticipated.

With respect to liabilities for BI claims, we believe it is reasonably
possible that average claims severities will change by at least one percentage
point from the projected severities used in establishing the recorded
liabilities at December 31, 2022. We estimate that a one percentage point
increase or decrease in BI severities would produce a $245 million increase or
decrease in recorded liabilities, with a corresponding decrease or increase in
pre-tax earnings. Many of the economic forces that would likely cause BI
severity to differ from expectations would likely also cause severities for
other injury coverages to differ in the same direction.

K-59

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Property and casualty insurance unpaid losses (Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

BHRG's liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses derive
primarily from reinsurance contracts issued through the NICO, General Re and
TransRe Groups. A summary of BHRG's property and casualty unpaid losses and
loss adjustment expenses, other than retroactive reinsurance losses and loss
adjustment expenses, as of December 31, 2022 follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Property

|

|

|

Casualty

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
Reported case liabilities

|

$

|

8,314

|

|

|

$

|

12,136

|

|

|

$

|

20,450

|  
  
IBNR liabilities

|

|

9,084

|

|

|

|

21,041

|

|

|

|

30,125

|  
  
Gross unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

|

|

17,398

|

|

|

|

33,177

|

|

|

|

50,575

|  
  
Reinsurance recoverable

|

|

787

|

|

|

|

1,439

|

|

|

|

2,226

|  
  
Net unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

|

$

|

16,611

|

|

|

$

|

31,738

|

|

|

$

|

48,349

|  
  
Gross unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses consist primarily of
traditional property and casualty coverages written primarily under excess-of-
loss and quota-share treaties. Under certain contracts, coverage can apply to
multiple lines of business written and the ceding company may not report loss
data by such lines consistently, if at all. In those instances, we
judgmentally allocate losses to property and casualty coverages based on
internal estimates.

In connection with reinsurance contracts, the nature, extent, timing and
perceived reliability of loss information received from ceding companies
varies widely depending on the type of coverage and the contractual reporting
terms. Reinsurance contract terms, conditions and coverages also tend to lack
standardization and may evolve more rapidly than primary insurance policies.

The nature and extent of loss information provided under many facultative
(individual risk) or per occurrence excess contracts may be comparable to the
information received under a primary insurance contract. However, loss
information with respect to aggregate excess-of-loss and quota-share contracts
is often in a summary format rather than on an individual claim basis. Loss
data includes currently recoverable paid losses, as well as case loss
estimates. Ceding companies infrequently provide reliable IBNR loss estimates.

Loss reporting to reinsurers is typically slower than primary insurers. In the
U.S., client reporting is generally required at quarterly intervals ranging
from 30 to 90 days after the end of the quarterly period, while outside of the
U.S., reinsurance reporting practices may vary further. In certain countries,
clients report annually from 90 to 180 days after the end of the annual
period. To the extent that reinsurers assume and cede underlying risks from
other reinsurers, further delays in claims reporting may occur. The relative
impact of reporting delays on the reinsurer may vary depending on the type of
coverage, contractual reporting terms, the magnitude of the claim relative to
the attachment point of the reinsurance coverage and other reasons.

As reinsurers, the premium and loss data we receive is at least one level
removed from the underlying claimant, so there is a risk that the loss data
reported is incomplete, inaccurate or the claim is outside the coverage terms.
We maintain certain internal procedures to determine that the information is
complete and in compliance with the contract terms. Generally, our reinsurance
contracts permit us to access the ceding company's records with respect to the
subject business, thus providing the ability to audit the reported
information. In the normal course of business, disputes occasionally arise
concerning whether claims are covered by our reinsurance policies. We resolve
most coverage disputes through negotiation with the client. If disputes cannot
be resolved, our contracts generally provide arbitration or alternative
dispute resolution processes. We believe there are no coverage disputes at
this time for which an adverse resolution would likely have a material impact
on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.

Establishing claim liability estimates for reinsurance assumed requires
evaluation of loss information received from our clients. We generally rely on
the ceding companies' reported case loss estimates. We independently evaluate
certain reported case losses and if appropriate, we use our own case liability
estimate. For instance, as of December 31, 2022, our case loss estimates
exceeded ceding company estimates by approximately $650 million for certain
legacy workers' compensation claims occurring over 10 years ago. We also
periodically conduct detailed reviews of individual client claims, which may
cause us to adjust our case estimates.

K-60

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Property and casualty insurance unpaid losses (Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)

Although liabilities for losses are initially determined based on pricing and
underwriting analysis, we use a variety of actuarial methodologies that place
reliance on the extrapolation of historical data, loss development patterns,
industry data and other benchmarks. The estimate of the IBNR liabilities also
requires judgment by actuaries and management to reflect the impact of
additional factors like change in business mix, volume, claim reporting and
handling practices, inflation, social and legal environment and the terms and
conditions of the contracts. The methodologies generally fall into or are
hybrids of one or more of the following categories:

Paid and incurred loss development methods - These methods consider expected
case loss emergence and development patterns, together with expected loss
ratios by year. Factors affecting our loss development analysis include, but
are not limited to, changes in the following: client claims reporting and
settlement practices, the frequency of client company claim reviews, policy
terms and coverage (such as loss retention levels and occurrence and aggregate
policy limits), loss trends and legal trends that result in unanticipated
losses. Collectively, these factors influence our selections of expected case
loss emergence patterns.

Incurred and paid loss Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods - These methods consider
actual paid and incurred losses and expected patterns of paid and incurred
losses, taking the initial expected ultimate losses into account to determine
an estimate of the expected unpaid or unreported losses.

Frequency and severity methods - These methods commonly focus on a review of
the number of anticipated claims and the anticipated claims severity and may
also rely on development patterns to derive such estimates. However, our
processes and techniques for estimating liabilities in such analyses generally
rely more on a per-policy assessment of the ultimate cost associated with the
individual loss rather than with an analysis of historical development
patterns of past losses.

Additional analysis - In some cases we have established reinsurance claim
liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis, determined from case loss
estimates reported by the ceding company and IBNR liabilities that are
primarily a function of an anticipated loss ratio for the contract and the
reported case loss estimate. Liabilities are adjusted upward or downward over
time to reflect case losses reported versus expected case losses, which we use
to form revised judgment on the adequacy of the expected loss ratio and the
level of IBNR liabilities required for unreported claims. Anticipated loss
ratios are also revised to include estimates of known major catastrophe
events.

Our claim liability estimation process for short-tail lines, primarily
property exposures, utilizes a combination of the paid and incurred loss
development methods and the incurred and paid loss Bornhuetter-Ferguson
methods. Certain catastrophe, individual risk and aviation excess-of-loss
contracts tend to generate low frequency/high severity losses. Our processes
and techniques for estimating liabilities under such contracts generally rely
more on a per contract assessment of the ultimate cost associated with the
individual loss event rather than with an analysis of the historical
development patterns of past losses.

For our long-tail lines, primarily casualty exposures, we may rely on
different methods depending on the maturity of the business, with estimates
for the most recent years being based on priced loss expectations and more
mature years reflecting the paid or incurred development pattern indications.

In 2022, certain workers' compensation claims reported losses were less than
expected. As a result, we reduced estimated ultimate losses for prior years'
loss events by $114 million. We estimate that increases of ten percent in the
tail of the expected loss emergence pattern and in the expected loss ratios
would produce a net increase of approximately $1.1 billion in IBNR
liabilities, producing a corresponding decrease in pre-tax earnings. We
believe it is reasonably possible for these assumptions to increase at these
rates.

For other casualty losses, other than asbestos, environmental and other latent
injury claims, we reduced estimated ultimate liabilities for prior years'
events by approximately $650 million in 2022. For certain significant casualty
and general liability portfolios, we estimate that increases of five percent
in the claim-tails of the expected loss emergence patterns and in the expected
loss ratios would produce a net increase in our nominal IBNR liabilities and a
corresponding reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $980 million,
although outcomes of greater than or less than $980 million are possible given
the diversification in worldwide business.

The change in estimated ultimate liabilities for asbestos, environmental and
other latent injury claims, excluding amounts assumed under retroactive
reinsurance contracts was not significant in 2022. Net liabilities for such
claims were approximately $2.1 billion at December 31, 2022. Loss estimations
for these exposures are difficult to determine due to the changing legal
environment and increases may be required in the future if new exposures or
claimants are identified, new claims are reported or new theories of liability
emerge.

K-61

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Property and casualty insurance unpaid losses (Continued)

Retroactive reinsurance

Our retroactive reinsurance contracts cover loss events occurring before the
contract inception dates. Claim liabilities associated with our retroactive
reinsurance contracts predominately pertain to casualty or liability
exposures. We expect the claim-tails to be very long. At December 31, 2022,
gross unpaid losses were $35.4 billion and deferred charges were $9.9 billion.

Our contracts are generally subject to maximum limits of indemnifications and,
as such, we currently expect that maximum remaining gross losses payable under
our retroactive policies will not exceed $52 billion. Absent significant
judicial or legislative changes affecting asbestos, environmental or latent
injury exposures, we also currently believe it unlikely that losses will
develop upward to the maximum losses payable or downward by more than 15% of
our estimated gross liability.

We establish liability estimates by individual contract, considering exposure
and development trends. In establishing our liability estimates, we often
analyze historical aggregate loss payment patterns and project expected
ultimate losses under various scenarios. We assign judgmental probability
factors to these scenarios and an expected outcome is determined. We then
monitor subsequent loss payment activity and review ceding company reports and
other available information concerning the underlying losses. We re-estimate
the expected ultimate losses when significant events or significant deviations
from expectations are revealed.

Certain of our retroactive reinsurance contracts include asbestos,
environmental and other latent injury claims. Our estimated liabilities for
such claims were approximately $12.1 billion at December 31, 2022. We do not
consistently receive reliable detailed data regarding asbestos, environmental
and latent injury claims from all ceding companies, particularly with respect
to multi-line or aggregate excess-of-loss policies. When possible, we conduct
a detailed analysis of the underlying loss data to make an estimate of
ultimate reinsured losses. When detailed loss information is unavailable, we
develop estimates by applying recent industry trends and projections to
aggregate client data. Judgments in these areas necessarily consider the
stability of the legal and regulatory environment under which we expect claims
will be adjudicated. Legal reform and legislation could also have a
significant impact on our ultimate liabilities.

We increased estimated ultimate liabilities for prior years' retroactive
reinsurance contracts by $86 million in 2022. In 2022, we paid losses and loss
adjustment expenses of $2.4 billion with respect to our retroactive
reinsurance contracts.

In connection with our retroactive reinsurance contracts, we also record
deferred charges, which at contract inception represents the excess, if any,
of the estimated ultimate liability for unpaid losses over premiums received.
We amortize deferred charges, which produces charges to pre-tax earnings in
future periods based on the expected timing and amount of loss payments. We
adjust deferred charge balances due to changes in the expected timing and
ultimate amount of claim payments and the effects of the adjustments are
included in pre-tax earnings. Significant changes in such estimates may have a
significant effect on unamortized deferred charge balances. Based on the
contracts in effect as of December 31, 2022, we estimate that amortization
expense in 2023 will approximate $860 million.

Other Critical Accounting Policies

Our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2022 includes goodwill of
acquired businesses of $78.1 billion and other indefinite-lived intangible
assets of $18.3 billion. We evaluate these assets for impairment annually in
the fourth quarter and on an interim basis if the facts and circumstances lead
us to believe that more likely than not there has been an impairment.

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment reviews include
determining the estimated fair values of our reporting units and indefinite-
lived intangible assets. The key assumptions and inputs used in such
determinations may include forecasting revenues and expenses, cash flows and
capital expenditures, as well as an appropriate discount rate and other
inputs. Significant judgment by management is required in estimating the fair
value of a reporting unit and in performing impairment reviews. Due to the
inherent subjectivity and uncertainty in forecasting future cash flows and
earnings over long periods of time, actual results may differ materially from
the forecasts. If the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset
exceeds fair value, the excess is charged to earnings as an impairment loss.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value of
the reporting unit, then the excess, limited to the carrying amount of
goodwill, will be charged to earnings as an impairment loss.

K-62

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Other Critical Accounting Policies (Continued)

As of December 31, 2022, we concluded it was more likely than not that
goodwill recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet was not impaired. The fair
value estimates of reporting units are and will likely be significantly
affected by assumptions on the long-term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on
the reporting units businesses, as well as other assumptions concerning the
long-term economic performance of the reporting units, which we cannot
reliably predict. Consequently, any fair value estimates can be subject to
wide variations.

We primarily use discounted projected future earnings or cash flow methods in
determining fair values. The key assumptions and inputs used in such methods
may include forecasting revenues and expenses, cash flows and capital
expenditures, as well as an appropriate discount rate and other inputs. A
significant amount of judgment is required in estimating the fair value of a
reporting unit and in performing goodwill impairment tests.

In connection with the annual goodwill impairment review conducted in the
fourth quarter of 2022, the estimated fair values of six reporting units did
not exceed our carrying values by at least 20%. The most significant of these
reporting units was Precision Castparts Corp. ("PCC"). Our estimated fair
value of PCC was approximately $31.5 billion, exceeding our carrying value of
approximately $30.3 billion by 4.0%. Our carrying value of PCC included
goodwill of approximately $7.5 billion. For the five other reporting units,
our aggregate estimated fair value was approximately $4.5 billion, which
exceeded our aggregate carrying value of approximately $4.1 billion by 9.9%.
Our carrying value of these units included goodwill of approximately $1.4
billion.

In the second quarter of 2020, we quantitively reevaluated goodwill for
impairment for certain reporting units, and most significantly for PCC. As a
result of our reviews, we recorded pre-tax goodwill impairment charges of $10
billion and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $638
million, of which approximately $10 billion related to PCC. Prior to the
reevaluation, the carrying value of PCC-related goodwill was approximately $17
billion. Additionally, the carrying value of PCC-related indefinite-lived
intangible assets was approximately $14 billion. Substantially all of these
amounts were recorded in connection with Berkshire's acquisition of PCC in
2016. The initial effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on commercial airlines and
aircraft manufacturers were particularly severe. At that time, we considered
several factors in our reevaluation, including but not limited to the
announcements by airlines concerning potential future demand, employment
levels and aircraft orders, announcements by manufacturers of reduced aircraft
production and the actions we were taking to restructure operations.
Consequently, we deemed it prudent under the prevailing circumstances to
increase discount rates and reduce prior long-term forecasts of future cash
flows for purposes of reviewing for impairments.

Market Risk Disclosures

Our Consolidated Balance Sheets include substantial amounts of assets and
liabilities whose fair values are subject to market risks. Our significant
market risks are primarily associated with equity prices, interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The fair values of our
investment portfolios remain subject to considerable volatility. The following
sections address the significant market risks associated with our business
activities.

Equity Price Risk

Equity securities represent the most significant portion of our consolidated
investment portfolio. Strategically, we strive to invest in businesses that
possess excellent economics and able and honest management, and we prefer to
invest a meaningful amount in each company. Historically, equity investments
have been concentrated in relatively few issuers. At December 31, 2022,
approximately 75% of the total fair value of equity securities was
concentrated in five companies.

We often hold our equity securities for long periods and short-term price
volatility has occurred in the past and will occur in the future. We also
strive to maintain significant levels of shareholder capital and ample
liquidity to provide a margin of safety against short-term price volatility.

K-63

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Equity Price Risk (Continued)

For the past several years, we were also subject to equity price risk with
respect to our equity index put option contracts. However, substantially all
of the contracts written to date have expired.

The following table summarizes our significant assets and liabilities as of
December 31, 2022 and 2021 and the estimated effects of a hypothetical 30%
increase and a 30% decrease in market prices as of those dates. The selected
30% hypothetical increase and decrease does not reflect the best or worst case
scenario. Indeed, results from declines could be far worse due both to the
nature of equity markets and the aforementioned concentrations existing in our
equity investment portfolio. Dollar amounts are in millions.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Fair Value

|

|

|

Hypothetical  
Price Change

|

|

Estimated  
Fair Value After  
Hypothetical  
Change in Prices

|

|

|

Estimated  
Increase (Decrease)  
in Net Earnings (1)

|  
  
December 31, 2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investments in equity securities

|

|

$

|

308,793

|

|

|

30% increase

|

|

$

|

399,087

|

|

|

$

|

71,344

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

30% decrease

|

|

|

218,688

|

|

|

|

(71,195

|

)  
  
December 31, 2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investments in equity securities

|

|

$

|

350,719

|

|

|

30% increase

|

|

$

|

452,936

|

|

|

$

|

81,136

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

30% decrease

|

|

|

248,606

|

|

|

|

(81,053

|

)  
  
Equity index put option contract liabilities

|

|

|

99

|

|

|

30% increase

|

|

|

5

|

|

|

|

74

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

30% decrease

|

|

|

1,088

|

|

|

|

(781

|

)  
  
(1)

The estimated increase (decrease) is after income taxes.

Interest Rate Risk

We may also invest in bonds, loans or other interest rate sensitive
instruments. Our strategy is to acquire or originate such instruments at
prices considered appropriate relative to the perceived credit risk. We also
issue debt in the ordinary course of business to fund business operations,
business acquisitions and for other general purposes. We attempt to maintain
high credit ratings in order to minimize the cost of our debt. We infrequently
utilize derivative products, such as interest rate swaps, to manage interest
rate risks and we do not attempt to match maturities of assets and
liabilities.

The fair values of our fixed maturity investments, loans and finance
receivables and notes payable and other borrowings will fluctuate in response
to changes in market interest rates. Increases and decreases in interest rates
generally translate into decreases and increases in fair values of these
instruments. Additionally, fair values of interest rate sensitive instruments
may be affected by the creditworthiness of the issuer, prepayment options,
relative values of alternative investments, the liquidity of the instrument
and other general market conditions.

K-64

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Interest Rate Risk (Continued)

The following table summarizes the estimated effects of hypothetical changes
in interest rates on our significant assets and liabilities that are subject
to significant interest rate risk at December 31, 2022 and 2021. We assumed
that the interest rate changes occur immediately and uniformly to each
category of instrument and that there were no significant changes to other
factors used to determine the value of the instrument. The hypothetical
changes in interest rates do not reflect the best or worst case scenarios.
Actual results may differ from those reflected in the table. Dollars are in
millions.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

Estimated Fair Value After Hypothetical Change in  
Interest Rates (bp=basis points)

|  
  
|

|

Fair  
Value

|

|

|

100 bp  
decrease

|

|

|

100 bp  
increase

|

|

|

200 bp  
increase

|

|

|

300 bp  
increase

|  
  
December 31, 2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Assets:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investments in fixed maturity securities

|

|

$

|

25,128

|

|

|

$

|

25,619

|

|

|

$

|

24,659

|

|

|

$

|

24,215

|

|

|

$

|

23,794

|  
  
Investments in equity securities*

|

|

|

9,964

|

|

|

|

10,434

|

|

|

|

9,523

|

|

|

|

9,109

|

|

|

|

8,719

|  
  
Loans and finance receivables

|

|

|

23,428

|

|

|

|

24,249

|

|

|

|

22,633

|

|

|

|

21,907

|

|

|

|

21,228

|  
  
Liabilities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Notes payable and other borrowings:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance and other

|

|

|

41,961

|

|

|

|

45,535

|

|

|

|

38,941

|

|

|

|

36,367

|

|

|

|

34,157

|  
  
Railroad, utilities and energy

|

|

|

67,651

|

|

|

|

74,698

|

|

|

|

61,725

|

|

|

|

56,710

|

|

|

|

52,430

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
December 31, 2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Assets:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investments in fixed maturity securities

|

|

$

|

16,434

|

|

|

$

|

16,624

|

|

|

$

|

16,231

|

|

|

$

|

16,036

|

|

|

$

|

15,847

|  
  
Investments in equity securities*

|

|

|

10,864

|

|

|

|

11,457

|

|

|

|

10,313

|

|

|

|

9,798

|

|

|

|

9,319

|  
  
Loans and finance receivables

|

|

|

22,174

|

|

|

|

22,982

|

|

|

|

21,417

|

|

|

|

20,714

|

|

|

|

20,054

|  
  
Liabilities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Notes payable and other borrowings:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance and other

|

|

|

42,339

|

|

|

|

46,559

|

|

|

|

38,724

|

|

|

|

35,683

|

|

|

|

33,104

|  
  
Railroad, utilities and energy

|

|

|

87,065

|

|

|

|

97,474

|

|

|

|

78,472

|

|

|

|

71,289

|

|

|

|

65,246

|  
  
* Includes Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stocks

Foreign Currency Risk

Certain of our subsidiaries operate in foreign jurisdictions and we transact
business in foreign currencies. In addition, we hold investments in common
stocks of major multinational companies, who have significant foreign business
and foreign currency risk of their own. We generally do not attempt to match
assets and liabilities by currency and do not use derivative contracts to
manage foreign currency risks in a meaningful way.

K-65

* * *

Management's Discussion and Analysis (Continued)

Foreign Currency Risk (Continued)

Our net assets subject to financial statement translation into U.S. Dollars
are primarily in our insurance, utilities and energy and certain manufacturing
and service subsidiaries. A portion of our financial statement translation-
related impact from changes in foreign currency rates is recorded in other
comprehensive income. In addition, we include gains or losses from changes in
foreign currency exchange rates in net earnings related to non-U.S. Dollar
denominated assets and liabilities of Berkshire and its U.S.-based
subsidiaries. A summary of these gains (losses), after-tax, for each of the
years ending December 31, 2022 and 2021 follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Non-U.S. denominated debt included in net earnings

|

|

$

|

1,263

|

|

|

$

|

955

|  
  
Net liabilities under certain reinsurance contracts included in net earnings

|

|

|

263

|

|

|

|

58

|  
  
Foreign currency translation included in other comprehensive income

|

|

|

(2,045

|

)

|

|

|

(1,021

|

)  
  
Commodity Price Risk

Our subsidiaries use commodities in various ways in manufacturing and
providing services. As such, we are subject to price risks related to various
commodities. In most instances, we attempt to manage these risks through the
pricing of our products and services to customers. To the extent that we are
unable to sustain price increases in response to commodity price increases,
our operating results will likely be adversely affected. We generally do not
utilize derivative contracts to manage commodity price risks to any
significant degree.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

See "Market Risk Disclosures" contained in Item 7 "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term
is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a-15(f). Under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, as required by the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a-15(c). In making this assessment, we used the
criteria set forth in the framework in Internal Control--Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control--
Integrated Framework (2013), our management concluded that our internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2022.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2022 has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears on
page K-67.

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

February 25, 2023

K-66

* * *

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

Omaha, Nebraska

Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial
Reporting

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and
2021, the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income,
changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2022, and the related notes (collectively
referred to as the "financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on
criteria established in Internal Control -- Integrated Framework (2013) issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO).

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December
31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022,
based on criteria established in Internal Control -- Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by COSO.

Basis for Opinions

The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and an opinion on the Company's internal control over
financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in
accordance with the US federal securities laws and the applicable rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.

Our audits of the financial statements included performing procedures to
assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether
due to error or fraud, and performing procedures to respond to those risks.
Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included
evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial
statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide
a reasonable basis for our opinions.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

K-67

* * *

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM (Continued)

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the
current-period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or
required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to
accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2)
involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The
communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion
on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by
communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on
the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they
relate.

Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses-- Refer to Notes 1 and 16 to the
financial statements

Critical Audit Matter Description

The Company's unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses ("claim liabilities")
under short duration property and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts
are $107,472 million as of December 31, 2022. The key assumptions affecting
certain claim liabilities include expected loss and expense ("loss") ratios,
expected claim count emergence patterns, expected loss payment emergence
patterns, and expected loss reporting emergence patterns.

Given the subjectivity of estimating these key assumptions, performing audit
procedures to evaluate whether claim liabilities were appropriately recorded
as of December 31, 2022, required a high degree of auditor judgment and an
increased extent of effort, including the need to involve our actuarial
specialists.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to the key assumptions affecting certain claim
liabilities included the following, among others:

•

We tested the operating effectiveness of controls over claim liabilities,
including those over the key assumptions.

•

We evaluated the methods and assumptions used by management to estimate the
claim liabilities by:

•

Testing the underlying data that served as the basis for the actuarial
analysis, such as historical claims and earned premium, to test that the
inputs to the actuarial estimate were reasonable.

•

Comparing management's prior-year claim liabilities to actual development
during the current year to identify potential bias in the determination of the
claim liabilities.

•

With the assistance of our actuarial specialists:

•

We developed independent estimates of the claim liabilities, including loss
data and industry claim development factors as needed, and compared our
estimates to management's estimates.

•

We compared management's change in ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense
to prior year estimates to test the reasonableness of the prior year estimates
and assessed unexpected development.

Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses Under Retroactive Reinsurance
Contracts -- Refer to Notes 1 and 17 to the financial statements

Critical Audit Matter Description

The Company's unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses ("claim liabilities")
for property and casualty retroactive reinsurance contracts are $35,415
million as of December 31, 2022. The key assumptions affecting certain claim
liabilities and related deferred charge reinsurance assumed assets ("related
assets") include expected loss and expense ("loss") ratios, expected loss
payment emergence patterns, and expected loss reporting emergence.

Given the subjectivity of estimating these key assumptions, performing audit
procedures to evaluate whether claim liabilities were appropriately recorded
as of December 31, 2022, required a high degree of auditor judgment and an
increased extent of effort, including the need to involve our actuarial
specialists.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to the key assumptions affecting claim
liabilities and related assets included the following, among others:

•

We tested the operating effectiveness of controls over claim liabilities and
related assets, including those over the key assumptions.

K-68

* * *

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM (Continued)

•

We evaluated the methods and assumptions used by management to estimate the
claim liabilities and related assets by:

•

Testing the underlying data that served as the basis for the actuarial
analysis, including historical claims, to test that the inputs to the
actuarial estimate were reasonable.

•

Comparing management's prior-year claim liabilities to actual development
during the current year to identify potential bias in the determination of the
claim liabilities and related assets.

•

With the assistance of our actuarial specialists:

•

We developed independent claim liability estimates for certain retroactive
reinsurance contracts and compared our estimates to management's estimates.
For other retroactive reinsurance contracts and related assets, we evaluated
the process used by management to develop the estimated claim liabilities and
related assets.

•

We compared management's change in ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense
to prior year estimates, assessed unexpected development and assessed internal
rates of return.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets -- Refer to Notes 1 and 13 to
the financial statements

Critical Audit Matter Description

The Company's evaluation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets
for impairment involves the comparison of the fair value of each reporting
unit or asset to its carrying value. The Company evaluates goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually. When
evaluating goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, the
fair value of each reporting unit or asset is estimated. Significant judgment
is required in estimating fair values and performing impairment tests. The
Company primarily uses discounted projected future net earnings or net cash
flows and multiples of earnings to estimate fair value, which requires
management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasts
of future revenue, earnings before interest and taxes ("EBIT"), and discount
rates. Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the
fair value of reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets.

The Precision Castparts Corp. ("PCC") reporting unit reported approximately $8
billion of goodwill and approximately $13 billion of indefinite-lived
intangible assets as of December 31, 2022. Given the significant judgments
made by management to estimate the fair value of the PCC reporting unit and
certain customer relationships with indefinite lives along with the difference
between their fair values and carrying values, performing audit procedures to
evaluate the reasonableness of management's estimates and assumptions related
to forecasts of future revenue and EBIT and the selection of the discount rate
required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort,
including the need to involve our fair value specialists.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to forecasts of future revenue and EBIT and the
selection of the discount rate for the PCC reporting unit and certain customer
relationships included the following, among others:

•

We tested the effectiveness of controls over goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets, including those over the forecasts of future revenue and
EBIT and the selection of the discount rate.

•

We evaluated management's ability to accurately forecast future revenue and
EBIT by comparing prior year forecasts to actual results in the respective
years.

•

We evaluated the reasonableness of management's current revenue and EBIT
forecasts by comparing the forecasts to historical results, newly executed
long-term contracts, customer demand and build schedules, forecasted
information included in analyst and industry reports and certain peer
companies' disclosures.

•

With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the valuation
methodologies, the terminal growth rates and discount rate, including testing
the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the
calculations, and developed a range of independent estimates and compared
those to the terminal growth rates and discount rate selected by management.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Omaha, Nebraska

February 25, 2023

We have served as the Company's auditor since 1985.

K-69

* * *

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in millions)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
ASSETS

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance and Other:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents*

|

|

$

|

32,260

|

|

|

$

|

85,319

|  
  
Short-term investments in U.S. Treasury Bills

|

|

|

92,774

|

|

|

|

58,535

|  
  
Investments in fixed maturity securities

|

|

|

25,128

|

|

|

|

16,434

|  
  
Investments in equity securities

|

|

|

308,793

|

|

|

|

350,719

|  
  
Equity method investments

|

|

|

28,050

|

|

|

|

16,045

|  
  
Loans and finance receivables

|

|

|

23,208

|

|

|

|

20,751

|  
  
Other receivables

|

|

|

43,506

|

|

|

|

35,388

|  
  
Inventories

|

|

|

25,366

|

|

|

|

20,954

|  
  
Property, plant and equipment

|

|

|

21,113

|

|

|

|

20,834

|  
  
Equipment held for lease

|

|

|

15,584

|

|

|

|

14,918

|  
  
Goodwill

|

|

|

51,522

|

|

|

|

47,117

|  
  
Other intangible assets

|

|

|

29,187

|

|

|

|

28,486

|  
  
Deferred charges - retroactive reinsurance

|

|

|

9,870

|

|

|

|

10,639

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

19,628

|

|

|

|

15,854

|  
  
|

|

|

725,989

|

|

|

|

741,993

|  
  
Railroad, Utilities and Energy:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents*

|

|

|

3,551

|

|

|

|

2,865

|  
  
Receivables

|

|

|

4,795

|

|

|

|

4,177

|  
  
Property, plant and equipment

|

|

|

160,268

|

|

|

|

155,530

|  
  
Goodwill

|

|

|

26,597

|

|

|

|

26,758

|  
  
Regulatory assets

|

|

|

5,062

|

|

|

|

3,963

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

22,190

|

|

|

|

23,498

|  
  
|

|

|

222,463

|

|

|

|

216,791

|  
  
|

|

$

|

948,452

|

|

|

$

|

958,784

|  
  
* Includes U.S. Treasury Bills with maturities of three months or less when purchased of $2.6 billion at December 31, 2022 and $61.7 billion at December 31, 2021.

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

K-70

* * *

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in millions)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance and Other:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

|

|

$

|

107,472

|

|

|

$

|

86,664

|  
  
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses under retroactive reinsurance
contracts

|

|

|

35,415

|

|

|

|

37,855

|  
  
Unearned premiums

|

|

|

28,657

|

|

|

|

23,512

|  
  
Life, annuity and health insurance benefits

|

|

|

22,421

|

|

|

|

22,282

|  
  
Other policyholder liabilities

|

|

|

10,101

|

|

|

|

9,901

|  
  
Accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities

|

|

|

33,201

|

|

|

|

30,376

|  
  
Aircraft repurchase liabilities and unearned lease revenues

|

|

|

6,820

|

|

|

|

5,849

|  
  
Notes payable and other borrowings

|

|

|

46,538

|

|

|

|

39,272

|  
  
|

|

|

290,625

|

|

|

|

255,711

|  
  
Railroad, Utilities and Energy:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities

|

|

|

16,615

|

|

|

|

15,696

|  
  
Regulatory liabilities

|

|

|

7,369

|

|

|

|

7,214

|  
  
Notes payable and other borrowings

|

|

|

76,206

|

|

|

|

74,990

|  
  
|

|

|

100,190

|

|

|

|

97,900

|  
  
Income taxes, principally deferred

|

|

|

77,020

|

|

|

|

90,243

|  
  
Total liabilities

|

|

|

467,835

|

|

|

|

443,854

|  
  
Shareholders' equity:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Common stock

|

|

|

8

|

|

|

|

8

|  
  
Capital in excess of par value

|

|

|

35,167

|

|

|

|

35,592

|  
  
Accumulated other comprehensive income

|

|

|

(6,591

|

)

|

|

|

(4,027

|

)  
  
Retained earnings

|

|

|

511,602

|

|

|

|

534,421

|  
  
Treasury stock, at cost

|

|

|

(67,826

|

)

|

|

|

(59,795

|

)  
  
Berkshire Hathaway shareholders' equity

|

|

|

472,360

|

|

|

|

506,199

|  
  
Noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

8,257

|

|

|

|

8,731

|  
  
Total shareholders' equity

|

|

|

480,617

|

|

|

|

514,930

|  
  
|

|

$

|

948,452

|

|

|

$

|

958,784

|  
  
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

K-71

* * *

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

(dollars in millions except per share amounts)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Revenues:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance and Other:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance premiums earned

|

|

$

|

74,645

|

|

|

$

|

69,478

|

|

|

$

|

63,401

|  
  
Sales and service revenues

|

|

|

157,518

|

|

|

|

145,043

|

|

|

|

127,044

|  
  
Leasing revenues

|

|

|

7,514

|

|

|

|

5,988

|

|

|

|

5,209

|  
  
Interest, dividend and other investment income

|

|

|

10,263

|

|

|

|

7,465

|

|

|

|

8,092

|  
  
|

|

|

249,940

|

|

|

|

227,974

|

|

|

|

203,746

|  
  
Railroad, Utilities and Energy:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Freight rail transportation revenues

|

|

|

25,802

|

|

|

|

23,177

|

|

|

|

20,750

|  
  
Energy operating revenues

|

|

|

21,023

|

|

|

|

18,891

|

|

|

|

15,540

|  
  
Service revenues and other income

|

|

|

5,324

|

|

|

|

6,161

|

|

|

|

5,543

|  
  
|

|

|

52,149

|

|

|

|

48,229

|

|

|

|

41,833

|  
  
Total revenues

|

|

|

302,089

|

|

|

|

276,203

|

|

|

|

245,579

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investment and derivative contract gains (losses)

|

|

|

(67,899

|

)

|

|

|

78,542

|

|

|

|

40,746

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Costs and expenses:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance and Other:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses

|

|

|

57,646

|

|

|

|

49,964

|

|

|

|

43,951

|  
  
Life, annuity and health insurance benefits

|

|

|

5,152

|

|

|

|

6,007

|

|

|

|

5,812

|  
  
Insurance underwriting expenses

|

|

|

11,942

|

|

|

|

12,569

|

|

|

|

12,798

|  
  
Cost of sales and services

|

|

|

124,319

|

|

|

|

114,138

|

|

|

|

101,091

|  
  
Cost of leasing

|

|

|

5,550

|

|

|

|

4,201

|

|

|

|

3,520

|  
  
Selling, general and administrative expenses

|

|

|

19,506

|

|

|

|

18,843

|

|

|

|

19,809

|  
  
Goodwill and intangible asset impairments

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

10,671

|  
  
Interest expense

|

|

|

1,187

|

|

|

|

1,086

|

|

|

|

1,105

|  
  
|

|

|

225,302

|

|

|

|

206,808

|

|

|

|

198,757

|  
  
Railroad, Utilities and Energy:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Freight rail transportation expenses

|

|

|

17,282

|

|

|

|

14,477

|

|

|

|

13,120

|  
  
Utilities and energy cost of sales and other expenses

|

|

|

15,896

|

|

|

|

13,959

|

|

|

|

11,638

|  
  
Other expenses

|

|

|

4,984

|

|

|

|

5,615

|

|

|

|

4,796

|  
  
Interest expense

|

|

|

3,165

|

|

|

|

3,086

|

|

|

|

2,978

|  
  
|

|

|

41,327

|

|

|

|

37,137

|

|

|

|

32,532

|  
  
Total costs and expenses

|

|

|

266,629

|

|

|

|

243,945

|

|

|

|

231,289

|  
  
Earnings (loss) before income taxes and equity method earnings

|

|

|

(32,439

|

)

|

|

|

110,800

|

|

|

|

55,036

|  
  
Equity method earnings

|

|

|

1,863

|

|

|

|

886

|

|

|

|

657

|  
  
Earnings (loss) before income taxes

|

|

|

(30,576

|

)

|

|

|

111,686

|

|

|

|

55,693

|  
  
Income tax expense (benefit)

|

|

|

(8,518

|

)

|

|

|

20,879

|

|

|

|

12,440

|  
  
Net earnings (loss)

|

|

|

(22,058

|

)

|

|

|

90,807

|

|

|

|

43,253

|  
  
Earnings (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

761

|

|

|

|

1,012

|

|

|

|

732

|  
  
Net earnings (loss) attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders

|

|

$

|

(22,819

|

)

|

|

$

|

89,795

|

|

|

$

|

42,521

|  
  
Net earnings (loss) per average equivalent Class A share

|

|

$

|

(15,535

|

)

|

|

$

|

59,460

|

|

|

$

|

26,668

|  
  
Net earnings (loss) per average equivalent Class B share*

|

|

$

|

(10.36

|

)

|

|

$

|

39.64

|

|

|

$

|

17.78

|  
  
Average equivalent Class A shares outstanding

|

|

|

1,468,876

|

|

|

|

1,510,180

|

|

|

|

1,594,469

|  
  
Average equivalent Class B shares outstanding

|

|

|

2,203,313,642

|

|

|

|

2,265,269,867

|

|

|

|

2,391,703,454

|  
  
* Class B shares are economically equivalent to one-fifteen-hundredth of a Class A share. Accordingly, net earnings per average equivalent Class B share outstanding is equal to one-fifteen-hundredth of the equivalent Class A amount. See Note 21.

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

K-72

* * *

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(dollars in millions)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Net earnings (loss)

|

|

$

|

(22,058

|

)

|

|

$

|

90,807

|

|

|

$

|

43,253

|  
  
Other comprehensive income:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments

|

|

|

(713

|

)

|

|

|

(217

|

)

|

|

|

74

|  
  
Applicable income taxes

|

|

|

158

|

|

|

|

50

|

|

|

|

(19

|

)  
  
Foreign currency translation

|

|

|

(2,136

|

)

|

|

|

(1,011

|

)

|

|

|

1,284

|  
  
Applicable income taxes

|

|

|

22

|

|

|

|

(6

|

)

|

|

|

3

|  
  
Defined benefit pension plans

|

|

|

(253

|

)

|

|

|

1,775

|

|

|

|

(355

|

)  
  
Applicable income taxes

|

|

|

47

|

|

|

|

(457

|

)

|

|

|

74

|  
  
Other, net

|

|

|

250

|

|

|

|

100

|

|

|

|

(42

|

)  
  
Other comprehensive income, net

|

|

|

(2,625

|

)

|

|

|

234

|

|

|

|

1,019

|  
  
Comprehensive income

|

|

|

(24,683

|

)

|

|

|

91,041

|

|

|

|

44,272

|  
  
Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

700

|

|

|

|

1,030

|

|

|

|

751

|  
  
Comprehensive income attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders

|

|

$

|

(25,383

|

)

|

|

$

|

90,011

|

|

|

$

|

43,521

|  
  
BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

(dollars in millions)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Berkshire Hathaway shareholders' equity

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Common stock and capital in excess of par value

|

|

|

Accumulated  
other  
comprehensive  
income

|

|

|

Retained  
earnings

|

|

|

Treasury  
stock

|

|

|

Non-  
controlling  
interests

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
Balance December 31, 2019

|

|

$

|

35,666

|

|

|

$

|

(5,243

|

)

|

|

$

|

402,493

|

|

|

$

|

(8,125

|

)

|

|

$

|

3,772

|

|

|

$

|

428,563

|  
  
Net earnings

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

42,521

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

732

|

|

|

|

43,253

|  
  
Adoption of new accounting pronouncement

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(388

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(388

|

)  
  
Other comprehensive income, net

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,000

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

19

|

|

|

|

1,019

|  
  
Acquisition of common stock

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(24,728

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(24,728

|

)  
  
Transactions with noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(32

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

3,649

|

|

|

|

3,617

|  
  
Balance December 31, 2020

|

|

|

35,634

|

|

|

|

(4,243

|

)

|

|

|

444,626

|

|

|

|

(32,853

|

)

|

|

|

8,172

|

|

|

|

451,336

|  
  
Net earnings

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

89,795

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,012

|

|

|

|

90,807

|  
  
Other comprehensive income, net

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

216

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

18

|

|

|

|

234

|  
  
Acquisition of common stock

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(26,942

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(26,942

|

)  
  
Transactions with noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(34

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(471

|

)

|

|

|

(505

|

)  
  
Balance December 31, 2021

|

|

|

35,600

|

|

|

|

(4,027

|

)

|

|

|

534,421

|

|

|

|

(59,795

|

)

|

|

|

8,731

|

|

|

|

514,930

|  
  
Net earnings (loss)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(22,819

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

761

|

|

|

|

(22,058

|

)  
  
Other comprehensive income, net

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(2,564

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(61

|

)

|

|

|

(2,625

|

)  
  
Acquisition of common stock

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(8,031

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(8,031

|

)  
  
Transactions with noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(425

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(1,174

|

)

|

|

|

(1,599

|

)  
  
Balance December 31, 2022

|

|

$

|

35,175

|

|

|

$

|

(6,591

|

)

|

|

$

|

511,602

|

|

|

$

|

(67,826

|

)

|

|

$

|

8,257

|

|

|

$

|

480,617

|  
  
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

K-73

* * *

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in millions)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Cash flows from operating activities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Net earnings (loss)

|

|

$

|

(22,058

|

)

|

|

$

|

90,807

|

|

|

$

|

43,253

|  
  
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings (loss) to operating cash flows:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investment (gains) losses

|

|

|

67,623

|

|

|

|

(77,576

|

)

|

|

|

(40,905

|

)  
  
Depreciation and amortization

|

|

|

10,899

|

|

|

|

10,718

|

|

|

|

10,596

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

(4,324

|

)

|

|

|

(3,397

|

)

|

|

|

11,263

|  
  
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

|

|

|

4,057

|

|

|

|

4,194

|

|

|

|

4,476

|  
  
Deferred charges - retroactive reinsurance

|

|

|

769

|

|

|

|

1,802

|

|

|

|

1,307

|  
  
Unearned premiums

|

|

|

1,861

|

|

|

|

2,306

|

|

|

|

1,587

|  
  
Receivables and originated loans

|

|

|

(5,592

|

)

|

|

|

(5,834

|

)

|

|

|

(1,609

|

)  
  
Inventories

|

|

|

(4,779

|

)

|

|

|

(1,862

|

)

|

|

|

681

|  
  
Other assets

|

|

|

(373

|

)

|

|

|

176

|

|

|

|

(1,790

|

)  
  
Other liabilities

|

|

|

2,033

|

|

|

|

2,790

|

|

|

|

3,719

|  
  
Income taxes

|

|

|

(12,892

|

)

|

|

|

15,297

|

|

|

|

7,195

|  
  
Net cash flows from operating activities

|

|

|

37,224

|

|

|

|

39,421

|

|

|

|

39,773

|  
  
Cash flows from investing activities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Purchases of equity securities

|

|

|

(67,930

|

)

|

|

|

(8,448

|

)

|

|

|

(30,161

|

)  
  
Sales of equity securities

|

|

|

33,664

|

|

|

|

15,849

|

|

|

|

38,756

|  
  
Purchases of U.S. Treasury Bills and fixed maturity securities

|

|

|

(183,922

|

)

|

|

|

(152,637

|

)

|

|

|

(208,429

|

)  
  
Sales of U.S. Treasury Bills and fixed maturity securities

|

|

|

90,088

|

|

|

|

27,188

|

|

|

|

31,873

|  
  
Redemptions and maturities of U.S. Treasury Bills and fixed maturity
securities

|

|

|

66,318

|

|

|

|

160,402

|

|

|

|

149,709

|  
  
Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired

|

|

|

(10,594

|

)

|

|

|

(456

|

)

|

|

|

(2,532

|

)  
  
Purchases of property, plant and equipment and equipment held for lease

|

|

|

(15,464

|

)

|

|

|

(13,276

|

)

|

|

|

(13,012

|

)  
  
Other

|

|

|

239

|

|

|

|

770

|

|

|

|

(3,961

|

)  
  
Net cash flows from investing activities

|

|

|

(87,601

|

)

|

|

|

29,392

|

|

|

|

(37,757

|

)  
  
Cash flows from financing activities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Proceeds from borrowings of insurance and other businesses

|

|

|

7,822

|

|

|

|

2,961

|

|

|

|

5,925

|  
  
Repayments of borrowings of insurance and other businesses

|

|

|

(1,502

|

)

|

|

|

(3,032

|

)

|

|

|

(2,700

|

)  
  
Proceeds from borrowings of railroad, utilities and energy businesses

|

|

|

4,873

|

|

|

|

3,959

|

|

|

|

8,445

|  
  
Repayments of borrowings of railroad, utilities and energy businesses

|

|

|

(2,426

|

)

|

|

|

(4,016

|

)

|

|

|

(3,761

|

)  
  
Changes in short term borrowings, net

|

|

|

(596

|

)

|

|

|

(624

|

)

|

|

|

(1,118

|

)  
  
Acquisition of treasury stock

|

|

|

(7,854

|

)

|

|

|

(27,061

|

)

|

|

|

(24,706

|

)  
  
Other, principally transactions with noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(1,979

|

)

|

|

|

(695

|

)

|

|

|

(429

|

)  
  
Net cash flows from financing activities

|

|

|

(1,662

|

)

|

|

|

(28,508

|

)

|

|

|

(18,344

|

)  
  
Effects of foreign currency exchange rate changes

|

|

|

(268

|

)

|

|

|

5

|

|

|

|

92

|  
  
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash

|

|

|

(52,307

|

)

|

|

|

40,310

|

|

|

|

(16,236

|

)  
  
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of year

|

|

|

88,706

|

|

|

|

48,396

|

|

|

|

64,632

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of year*

|

|

$

|

36,399

|

|

|

$

|

88,706

|

|

|

$

|

48,396

|  
  
* Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of year are comprised of:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance and Other

|

|

$

|

32,260

|

|

|

$

|

85,319

|

|

|

$

|

44,714

|  
  
Railroad, Utilities and Energy

|

|

|

3,551

|

|

|

|

2,865

|

|

|

|

3,276

|  
  
Restricted cash included in other assets

|

|

|

588

|

|

|

|

522

|

|

|

|

406

|  
  
|

|

$

|

36,399

|

|

|

$

|

88,706

|

|

|

$

|

48,396

|  
  
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

K-74

* * *

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2022

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices

(a)

Nature of operations and basis of consolidation

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ("Berkshire") is a holding company owning subsidiaries
engaged in numerous diverse business activities, including insurance and
reinsurance, freight rail transportation, utilities and energy, manufacturing,
service and retailing. In these notes the terms "us," "we," or "our" refer to
Berkshire and its consolidated subsidiaries. Further information regarding our
reportable business segments is contained in Note 25. Information concerning
significant business acquisitions completed over the past three years appears
in Note 2. We believe that reporting the Railroad, Utilities and Energy
subsidiaries separately is appropriate given the relative significance of
their long-lived assets, capital expenditures and debt, which is not
guaranteed by Berkshire.

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of
Berkshire consolidated with the accounts of all subsidiaries and affiliates in
which we hold a controlling financial interest as of the financial statement
date. Normally a controlling financial interest reflects ownership of a
majority of the voting interests. We consolidate variable interest entities
("VIE") when we possess both the power to direct the activities of the VIE
that most significantly affect its economic performance, and we (a) are
obligated to absorb the losses that could be significant to the VIE or (b)
hold the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to
the VIE. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain
immaterial balances in the Consolidated Financial Statements have been
reclassified in prior years to conform to current year presentations.

(b)

Use of estimates in preparation of financial statements

We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") which requires us
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the period. Our estimates of unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses are subject to considerable estimation error due to the
inherent uncertainty in projecting ultimate claim costs. In addition,
estimates and assumptions associated with the amortization of deferred charges
on retroactive reinsurance contracts, determinations of fair values of certain
financial instruments and evaluations of goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets for impairment require considerable judgment. Actual results
may differ from the estimates used in preparing our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

To varying degrees the COVID-19 pandemic and its consequences continues to
affect our operating businesses. Significant government and private sector
actions have been taken since 2020 to control the spread and mitigate the
economic effects of the virus and its variants. Such actions in 2022 included
temporary business closures or restrictions of business activities in various
parts of the world. In addition, significant disruptions of supply chains and
higher costs emerged in 2021 and persisted in 2022. The development of
geopolitical conflicts in 2022 contributed to disruptions of supply chains,
resulting in cost increases for commodities, goods and services in many parts
of the world. In the U.S. and elsewhere, governments are implementing actions
intended to slow price inflation. The economic effects from these events over
longer terms cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Accordingly,
significant estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements,
including those associated with evaluations of certain long-lived assets,
goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment, expected credit losses on
amounts owed to us and the estimations of certain losses assumed under
insurance and reinsurance contracts, may be subject to significant adjustments
in future periods.

(c)

Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments in U.S. Treasury Bills

Cash equivalents consist of demand deposit and money market accounts and
investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased. Short-term
investments in U.S. Treasury Bills have maturities exceeding three months and
less than one year at the time of purchase.

(d)

Investments in fixed maturity securities

We classify investments in fixed maturity securities on the acquisition date
and at each balance sheet date. Securities classified as held-to-maturity are
carried at amortized cost, reflecting the ability and intent to hold the
securities to maturity. Securities classified as trading are acquired with the
intent to sell in the near term and are carried at fair value with changes in
fair value reported in earnings. All other securities are classified as
available-for-sale and are carried at fair value. Substantially all of our
investments in fixed maturity securities are classified as available-for-sale.
We amortize the difference between the original cost and maturity value of a
fixed maturity security to earnings using the interest method.

K-75

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices (Continued)

(d)

Investments in fixed maturity securities (Continued)

We record investment gains and losses on available-for-sale fixed maturity
securities when the securities are sold, determined on a specific
identification basis. For securities in an unrealized loss position, we
recognize a loss in earnings for the excess of amortized cost over fair value
if we intend to sell before the price recovers. As of the balance sheet date,
we evaluate whether the other unrealized losses are attributable to credit
losses or other factors. We consider the severity of the decline in value,
creditworthiness of the issuer and other relevant factors. We record an
allowance for credit losses, limited to the excess of amortized cost over fair
value, with a corresponding charge to earnings if the present value of
estimated cash flows is less than the present value of contractual cash flows.
The allowance may be subsequently increased or decreased based on the
prevailing facts and circumstances. The portion of the unrealized loss that we
believe is not related to a credit loss is recognized in other comprehensive
income.

(e)

Investments in equity securities

We carry substantially all investments in equity securities at fair value and
record the subsequent changes in fair values in the Consolidated Statements of
Earnings as a component of investment gains or losses.

(f)

Investments under the equity method

We utilize the equity method to account for investments when we possess the
ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the operating
and financial policies of the investee. The ability to exercise significant
influence is presumed when the investor possesses more than 20% of the voting
interests of the investee. This presumption may be overcome based on specific
facts and circumstances that demonstrate that the ability to exercise
significant influence is restricted. We apply the equity method to investments
in common stock and other investments when such investments possess
substantially identical subordinated interests to common stock, and do not
apply the equity method to investments that are not in-substance common stock
as defined by GAAP.

In applying the equity method, we record the investment at cost and
subsequently increase or decrease the carrying amount of the investment by our
proportionate share of the net earnings or losses and other comprehensive
income of the investee. We record dividends or other equity distributions as
reductions in the carrying value of the investment. If net losses reduce our
carrying amount to zero, additional net losses may be recorded if other
investments in the investee are at-risk, even if we have not committed to
provide financial support to the investee. Such additional equity method
losses, if any, are based upon the change in our claim on the investee's book
value.

(g)

Loans and finance receivables

Loans and finance receivables are primarily manufactured home loans, and to a
lesser extent, commercial loans and site-built home loans. We carry
substantially all loans and finance receivables at amortized cost, net of
allowances for expected credit losses, based on our ability and intent to hold
such loans to maturity. Acquisition costs and loan origination and commitment
costs paid and fees received, as well as acquisition premiums or discounts,
are amortized as yield adjustments over the lives of the loans.

Measurements of expected credit losses include provisions for non-collection,
whether the risk is probable or remote. Expected credit losses on manufactured
home loans are based on the net present value of future principal payments
less estimated expenses related to the charge-off and foreclosure of expected
uncollectible loans and include provisions for loans that are not in
foreclosure. Our principal credit quality indicator is whether the loans are
performing. Expected credit loss estimates consider historical default rates,
collateral recovery rates, historical runoff rates, interest rates, reductions
of future cash flows for modified loans and the historical time elapsed from
last payment until foreclosure, among other factors. In addition, our
estimates consider current conditions and reasonable and supportable
forecasts.

K-76

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices (Continued)

(g)

Loans and finance receivables (Continued)

Loans are considered delinquent when payments are more than 30 days past due.
We place loans over 90 days past due on nonaccrual status and accrued but
uncollected interest is reversed. Subsequent collections on the loans are
first applied to the principal and interest owed for the most delinquent
amount. We resume interest income accrual once a loan is less than 90 days
delinquent.

Loans are considered non-performing when the foreclosure process has started.
Once a loan is in the process of foreclosure, interest income is not
recognized until the foreclosure is cured or the loan is modified. Once a
modification is complete, interest income is recognized based on the terms of
the new loan. Foreclosed loans are charged off when the collateral is sold.
Loans not in foreclosure are evaluated for charge-off based on individual
circumstances concerning the future collectability of the loan and the
condition of the collateral securing the loan.

(h)

Other receivables

Other receivables include balances due from customers, insurance premiums
receivable and reinsurance losses recoverable, as well as other receivables.
Trade receivables, insurance premium receivables and other receivables are
primarily short-term in nature with stated collection terms of less than one
year from the date of origination. Reinsurance recoverables are comprised of
amounts ceded under reinsurance contracts or pursuant to mandatory government-
sponsored insurance programs. Reinsurance recoverables relate to unpaid losses
and loss adjustment expenses arising from property and casualty contracts and
benefits under life and health contracts. Receivables are stated net of
estimated allowances for uncollectible balances.

We measure expected credit losses primarily utilizing credit loss history,
with adjustments to reflect current or expected future economic conditions
when reasonable and supportable forecasts of losses deviate from historical
experience. In evaluating expected credit losses of reinsurance recoverables
on unpaid losses, we review the credit quality of the counterparty and
consider right-of-offset provisions within reinsurance contracts and other
forms of credit enhancement including collateral, guarantees and other
available information. We charge-off receivables against the allowances after
all reasonable collection efforts are exhausted.

(i)

Derivatives

We carry assets and liabilities arising from derivative contracts at fair
value in other assets and accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities in
our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Balances are net of reductions permitted
under master netting agreements with counterparties. We record the changes in
fair value of derivative contracts that do not qualify as hedging instruments
for financial reporting purposes in earnings or, if such contracts involve our
regulated utilities subsidiaries, as regulatory assets or liabilities when
inclusion in regulated rates is probable.

(j)

Fair value measurements

As defined under GAAP, fair value is the price that would be received to sell
an asset or paid to transfer a liability between market participants in the
principal market or in the most advantageous market when no principal market
exists. Adjustments to transaction prices or quoted market prices may be
required in illiquid or disorderly markets in estimating fair value.
Alternative valuation techniques may be appropriate under the circumstances to
determine the value that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction. Market participants are
assumed to be independent, knowledgeable, and able and willing to transact an
exchange and not acting under duress. Our nonperformance or credit risk is
considered in determining the fair value of liabilities. Considerable judgment
may be required in interpreting market data used to develop the estimates of
fair value. Accordingly, estimates of fair value presented herein are not
necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current or
future market exchange.

(k)

Inventories

Inventories consist of manufactured goods, goods or products acquired for
resale and homes constructed for sale. Manufactured inventory costs include
materials, direct and indirect labor and factory overhead. At December 31,
2022, we used the last-in-first-out ("LIFO") method to value approximately 30%
of consolidated inventories with the remainder primarily determined under
first-in-first-out and average cost methods. Non-LIFO inventories are stated
at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The excess of current or
replacement costs over costs determined under LIFO was approximately $2.5
billion as of December 31, 2022 and $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2021.

K-77

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices (Continued)

(l)

Property, plant and equipment and equipment held for lease

We use property, plant and equipment in our operations. We also own equipment
that we lease to others under lease contracts. We record additions to
property, plant and equipment and equipment held for lease at cost, which
includes asset additions, improvements and betterments. With respect to
constructed assets, all materials, direct labor and contract services as well
as certain indirect costs are capitalized. Indirect costs include interest
over the construction period. With respect to constructed assets of our
utility and energy subsidiaries that are subject to authoritative guidance for
regulated operations, capitalized costs also include an allowance for funds
used during construction, which represents the cost of equity funds used to
finance the construction of the regulated facilities. Normal repairs and
maintenance and other costs that do not improve the property, extend its
useful life or otherwise do not meet capitalization criteria are charged to
expense as incurred.

Depreciation of assets of our regulated utilities and railroad is generally
determined using group depreciation methods where rates are based on periodic
depreciation studies approved by the applicable regulator. Under group
depreciation, a composite rate is applied to the gross investment in a
particular class of property, despite differences in the service life or
salvage value of individual property units within the same class. When such
assets are retired or sold, no gain or loss is recognized. Gains or losses on
disposals of all other assets are recorded through earnings.

We depreciate property, plant and equipment used by our other businesses to
the estimated salvage value primarily using the straight-line method over
estimated service lives. Ranges of estimated service lives of depreciable
assets used in our other businesses are as follows: buildings and improvements
- 5 to 50 years, machinery and equipment - 3 to 25 years and furniture,
fixtures and other - 3 to 15 years. Ranges of estimated useful lives of
depreciable assets unique to our railroad business are as follows: track
structure and other roadway - 10 to 100 years and locomotives, freight cars
and other equipment - 6 to 43 years. Ranges of estimated useful lives of
assets unique to our regulated utilities and energy businesses are as follows:
utility generation, transmission and distribution systems - 5 to 80 years,
interstate natural gas pipeline assets - 3 to 80 years and independent power
plants and other assets - 2 to 50 years. We depreciate the equipment held for
lease to estimated salvage value primarily using the straight-line method over
estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 35 years. We use declining balance
depreciation methods for assets when the revenue-earning power of the asset is
greater during the earlier years of its life.

We evaluate property, plant and equipment and equipment held for lease for
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value of such assets may not be recoverable or when the assets are held for
sale. Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, we assess whether the
estimated undiscounted cash flows expected from the use of the asset and the
residual value from the ultimate disposal of the asset exceeds the carrying
value. If the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable amounts, we
reduce the carrying value to fair value and record an impairment loss in
earnings, except with respect to impairment of assets of our regulated utility
and energy subsidiaries where the impacts of regulation are considered in
evaluating the carrying value.

(m)

Leases

We are party to contracts where we lease property from others. When we lease
assets from others, we record right-of-use assets and lease liabilities.
Right-of-use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the
lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease
payments arising from the lease. In this regard, lease payments include fixed
payments and variable payments that depend on an index or rate. The lease term
is generally considered the non-cancellable lease period. Certain lease
contracts contain renewal options or other terms that provide for variable
payments based on performance or usage. Options are not included in
determining right-of-use assets or lease liabilities unless it is reasonably
certain that options will be exercised. Generally, incremental borrowing rates
are used in measuring lease liabilities. Right-of-use assets are subject to
review for impairment. As permitted under GAAP, for some leases we do not
separate lease components from non-lease components by class of asset and we
do not record assets or liabilities for leases with terms of one year or less.

(n)

Goodwill and other intangible assets

Goodwill represents the excess of the acquisition price of a business over the
fair value of identified net assets of that business. We evaluate goodwill for
impairment at least annually. When evaluating goodwill for impairment, we
estimate the fair value of the reporting unit. Several methods may be used to
estimate a reporting unit's fair value, including market quotations, asset and
liability fair values and other valuation techniques, including, but not
limited to, discounted projected future net earnings or net cash flows and
multiples of earnings. When the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including
goodwill, exceeds the estimated fair value, the excess up to the balance of
goodwill is charged to earnings as an impairment loss.

K-78

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices (Continued)

(n)

Goodwill and other intangible assets (Continued)

Intangible assets with indefinite lives are also tested for impairment at
least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that,
more-likely-than-not, the asset is impaired. Significant judgment is required
in estimating fair values and performing goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible asset impairment tests. We amortize intangible assets with finite
lives in a pattern that reflects the expected consumption of related economic
benefits or on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic useful lives.
Intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable.

(o)

Revenue recognition

We earn insurance premiums on prospective property/casualty insurance and
reinsurance contracts over the loss exposure or coverage period in proportion
to the level of protection provided. Premiums are generally earned in
proportion to the coverage provided, which in most cases is ratably over the
term of the contract with unearned premiums computed on a monthly or daily
pro-rata basis. Premiums on retroactive property/casualty reinsurance
contracts are generally received in full and are earned at the inception of
the contracts, as all underlying loss events covered by the policies occurred
prior to contract inception. Premiums for life reinsurance and periodic
payment annuity contracts are earned when due. Premiums for periodic payment
annuity contracts are received in full at the inception of the contracts.
Premiums earned are stated net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. Premiums earned
on contracts with experience-rating provisions reflect estimated loss
experience under such contracts.

Sales and service revenues are recognized when goods or services are
transferred to a customer. A good or service is transferred when (or as) the
customer obtains control of that good or service. Revenues are based on the
consideration we expect to receive in connection with our promises to deliver
goods and services to our customers.

We manufacture and/or distribute a wide variety of industrial, building and
consumer products. Our sales contracts provide customers with these products
directly or through wholesale and retail channels in exchange for
consideration specified under the contracts. Contracts generally represent
customer orders for individual products at stated prices. Sales contracts may
contain either single or multiple performance obligations. In instances where
contracts contain multiple performance obligations, we allocate the revenue to
each obligation based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of each
product or service.

Sales revenue reflects reductions for returns, allowances, late delivery
penalties, volume discounts and other incentives, some of which may be
contingent on future events. In certain customer contracts, sales revenue
includes certain state and local excise taxes billed to customers on specified
products when those taxes are levied directly upon us by the taxing
authorities. Sales revenue excludes sales taxes and value-added taxes
collected on behalf of taxing authorities. Sales revenue includes
consideration for shipping and other fulfillment activities performed prior to
the customer obtaining control of the goods. We also elect to treat
consideration for such services performed after control has passed to the
customer as sales revenue.

Our product sales revenues are generally recognized at a point in time when
control of the product transfers to the customer, which coincides with
customer pickup or product delivery or acceptance, depending on terms of the
arrangement. We recognize sales revenues and related costs with respect to
certain contracts over time, primarily from certain castings, forgings and
aerostructures contracts. Control of the product units under these contracts
transfers continuously to the customer as the product is manufactured. These
products generally have no alternative use and the contract requires the
customer to provide reasonable compensation if terminated for reasons other
than breach of contract.

The primary performance obligation under our freight rail transportation
service contracts is to move freight from a point of origin to a point of
destination. The performance obligations are represented by bills of lading
which create a series of distinct services that have a similar pattern of
transfer to the customer. The revenues for each performance obligation are
based on various factors including the product being shipped, the origin and
destination pair and contract incentives, which are outlined in various
private rate agreements, common carrier public tariffs, interline foreign road
agreements and pricing quotes. The transaction price is generally a per
car/unit amount to transport railcars from a specified origin to a specified
destination. Freight revenues are recognized over time as the service is
performed because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the
benefits of the service. Revenues recognized represent the portion of the
service completed as of the balance sheet date. Invoices for freight
transportation services are generally issued to customers and paid within 30
days or less. Customer incentives, which are primarily provided for shipping a
specified cumulative volume or shipping to/from specific locations, are
recorded as a reduction to revenue on a pro-rata basis based on actual or
projected future customer shipments.

K-79

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices (Continued)

(o)

Revenue recognition (Continued)

Our energy revenue derives primarily from tariff-based sales arrangements
approved by various regulatory commissions. These tariff-based revenues are
mainly comprised of energy, transmission, distribution and natural gas and
have performance obligations to deliver energy products and services to
customers which are satisfied over time as energy is delivered or services are
provided. Our nonregulated energy revenue primarily relates to our renewable
energy business. Energy revenues are equivalent to the amounts we have the
right to invoice and correspond directly with the value to the customer of the
performance to date and include billed and unbilled amounts. Payments from
customers are generally due within 30 days of billing. Rates charged for
energy products and services are established by regulators or contractual
arrangements that establish the transaction price, as well as the allocation
of price among the separate performance obligations. When preliminary
regulated rates are permitted to be billed prior to final approval by the
applicable regulator, certain revenue collected may be subject to refund and a
liability for estimated refunds is accrued. Other service revenues derive from
contracts with customers in which performance obligations are satisfied over
time, where customers receive and consume benefits as we perform the services
or at a point in time when the services are provided. Other service revenues
primarily derive from real estate brokerage, automotive repair, aircraft
management, aviation training, franchising and news distribution.

Leasing revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the lease or
based on usage, if applicable under the terms of the contract. A substantial
portion of our lessor contracts are classified as operating leases.

(p)

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

We record liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses under
property/casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts for loss events that
have occurred on or before the balance sheet date. Such liabilities represent
the estimated ultimate payment amounts without discounting for time value.

We base liability estimates on (1) loss reports from policyholders and
cedents, (2) individual case estimates and (3) estimates of incurred but not
reported losses. Losses and loss adjustment expenses in the Consolidated
Statements of Earnings include paid claims, claim settlement costs and changes
in estimated claim liabilities. Losses and loss adjustment expenses charged to
earnings are net of amounts recovered and estimates of amounts recoverable
under ceded reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the
ceding company of its obligations to indemnify policyholders with respect to
the underlying insurance and reinsurance contracts.

(q)

Retroactive reinsurance contracts

We record liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses under
short duration retroactive reinsurance contracts consistent with
property/casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts described in Note 1(p).
With respect to retroactive reinsurance contracts, we also record deferred
charge assets at the inception of the contracts, representing the excess, if
any, of the estimated ultimate claim liabilities over the premiums earned. We
subsequently amortize the deferred charge assets over the expected claim
settlement periods using the interest method. Changes to the estimated timing
or amount of future loss payments also produce changes in deferred charge
balances. We apply changes in such estimates retrospectively and the resulting
changes in deferred charge balances, together with periodic amortization, are
included in insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses in the Consolidated
Statements of Earnings.

(r)

Insurance policy acquisition costs

We capitalize the direct incremental costs that relate to the successful sale
of insurance contracts, subject to ultimate recoverability. Direct incremental
acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes and certain other costs
associated with successful efforts. We expense all other underwriting costs as
incurred. For short duration contracts, we subsequently amortize deferred
policy acquisition costs to underwriting expenses as the related premiums are
earned. Acquisition costs related to long duration life insurance contracts
are amortized over the expected premium-paying period in proportion to the
anticipated premiums over the life of the policy. Such anticipated premiums
are estimated using the same assumptions used for computing liabilities for
future policy benefits. The recoverability of deferred policy acquisition
costs generally considers anticipated investment income. The unamortized
balances are included in other assets and were approximately $3.8 billion and
$3.4 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, which included $3.2
billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, related to property and casualty
insurance contracts.

K-80

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices (Continued)

(s)

Life, annuity and health insurance benefits

Liabilities for future life, annuity and health insurance benefits represent
the present value of expected future benefits and non-acquisition variable
expenses, less the present value of expected future net premiums (the portion
of gross premium required to provide for all expected future benefits and
variable expenses). In estimating future cash flows, we consider the timing
and amounts of future claims, premiums and expenses, which require estimates
concerning future investment yields, expected mortality, morbidity and lapse
or withdrawal rates. These assumptions, as applicable, also include a margin
for adverse deviation and may vary with the characteristics of the contract's
date of issuance, policy duration and country of risk. The interest rate
assumptions used for discounting may vary by contract or underlying currency
denomination of our reinsurance contracts. Generally, assumptions regarding
cash flow and discount rate are fixed at the inception of the contract and
changed only under certain adverse circumstances. The effects of changes in
estimated cash flows and discount rate assumptions on benefit liabilities are
recorded in earnings in the period of the change. Periodic payment and annuity
reinsurance contracts are regarded as limited payment contracts under GAAP. We
discount annuity liabilities based on the implicit rate as of the inception of
the contracts such that the present value of the liabilities equals the
premiums received less brokerage expense at the inception date. Discount rates
for most contracts range between 3% to 7%.

(t)

Regulated utilities and energy businesses

Certain energy subsidiaries prepare their financial statements in accordance
with authoritative guidance for regulated operations, reflecting the economic
effects of regulation from the ability to recover certain costs from customers
and the requirement to return revenues to customers in the future through the
regulated rate-setting process. Accordingly, certain costs are deferred as
regulatory assets and certain income is accrued as regulatory liabilities.
Regulatory assets and liabilities will be amortized into operating expenses
and revenues over various future periods.

Regulatory assets and liabilities are continually assessed for probable future
inclusion in regulatory rates by considering factors such as applicable
regulatory or legislative changes and recent rate orders received by other
regulated entities. If future inclusion in regulatory rates ceases to be
probable, the amount no longer probable of inclusion in regulatory rates is
charged or credited to earnings (or other comprehensive income, if applicable)
or returned to customers.

(u)

Foreign currency

The accounts of our non-U.S.-based subsidiaries are measured, in most
instances, using functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Revenues
and expenses in the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated
into U.S. Dollars at the average exchange rate for the period and assets and
liabilities are translated at the exchange rate as of the end of the reporting
period. The net effects of translating the financial statements of these
subsidiaries are included in shareholders' equity as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income. Gains and losses arising from
transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of
the subsidiary, including gains and losses from the remeasurement of assets
and liabilities due to changes in currency exchange rates, are included in
earnings.

(v)

Income taxes

Berkshire files a consolidated federal income tax return in the U.S., which
includes eligible subsidiaries. In addition, we file income tax returns in
state, local and foreign jurisdictions. Provisions for current income tax
liabilities are calculated and accrued on income and expense amounts expected
to be included in the income tax returns for the current year. Income taxes
reported in earnings also include deferred income tax provisions.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are computed on differences between
the financial statement bases and tax bases of assets and liabilities at the
enacted tax rates. Changes in deferred income tax assets and liabilities
associated with components of other comprehensive income are charged or
credited directly to other comprehensive income. Otherwise, changes in
deferred income tax assets and liabilities are included as a component of
income tax expense. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities
attributable to changes in enacted tax rates are charged or credited to income
tax expense in the period of enactment. Valuation allowances are established
for certain deferred income tax assets when realization is not likely.

Liabilities are established for uncertain tax positions taken or positions
expected to be taken in income tax returns when such positions, in our
judgment, do not meet a more-likely-than-not threshold based on the technical
merits of the positions. Estimated interest and penalties related to uncertain
tax positions are included as a component of income tax expense.

K-81

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices (Continued)

(w)

New accounting pronouncements adopted in 2020

We adopted Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 326 "Financial
Instruments-Credit Losses" on January 1, 2020, which provides for the
measurement of expected credit losses on financial assets that are carried at
amortized cost based on the net amounts expected to be collected. Measurements
of expected credit losses therefore include provisions for non-collection,
whether the risk is probable or remote. Upon adoption of ASC 326, we recorded
a charge to retained earnings of $388 million representing the cumulative
after-tax increase in our allowances for credit losses.

(x)

New accounting pronouncements to be adopted subsequent to December 31, 2022

In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting
Standards Update 2018-12 "Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-
Duration Contracts" ("ASU 2018-12"). ASU 2018-12 requires reassessment of cash
flow assumptions at least annually and revision of discount rate assumptions
each reporting period in valuing policyholder liabilities of long-duration
insurance and reinsurance contracts. Discount rate assumptions are established
based upon upper-medium grade corporate bond yields that reflect the duration
characteristics of the liabilities. ASU 2018-12 also provides for new
disclosures. Under ASU 2018-12, the effects from changes in cash flow
assumptions are reflected in earnings and the effects from changes in discount
rate assumptions are reflected in other comprehensive income. Prior to ASU
2018-12, the cash flow and discount rate assumptions were set at the contract
inception date and not subsequently changed, except under certain adverse
circumstances. ASU 2018-12 is to be applied retrospectively to the earliest
period presented in the financial statements.

We adopted ASU 2018-12 as of January 1, 2023 using the modified retrospective
method. Revised cash flow and discount rate assumptions were applied to
contracts in-force between January 1, 2021 (the transition date) and December
31, 2022 with liabilities remeasured, with the cumulative effect from discount
rate changes (based on prevailing interest rates) recorded in accumulated
other comprehensive income and the cumulative effect from cash flow assumption
changes in retained earnings.

The adoption of ASU 2018-12 produced a cumulative after-tax reduction in our
originally reported consolidated shareholders' equity at the end of 2020 of
approximately $6.4 billion (or 1.4%), consisting of reductions to accumulated
other comprehensive income of $5.7 billion and retained earnings of $700
million. The cumulative decline in shareholders' equity decreased to
approximately $4.6 billion (or 0.9% of the shareholders' equity originally
reported) at December 31, 2021. The cumulative effect of adopting ASU 2018-12
will increase our shareholders' equity at December 31, 2022 by approximately
$1.0 billion. These effects reflect the after-tax increases or decreases to
our life, health and annuity benefits liabilities and reinsurance
recoverables, primarily derived from changes in discount rate assumptions. The
effects of adopting ASU 2018-12 will be reflected primarily in other
comprehensive income and the impact on our consolidated net earnings for each
of the years ending December 31, 2022 and 2021 is not material.

(2)

Significant business acquisitions

Our long-held acquisition strategy is to acquire businesses that have
consistent earning power, good returns on equity and able and honest
management. Financial results attributable to business acquisitions are
included in our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on their
respective acquisition dates. Information concerning significant business
acquisitions completed in each of the three years ending December 31, 2022
follows.

On October 19, 2022, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding common stock of
Alleghany Corporation ("Alleghany") for approximately $11.5 billion, which
includes the value of certain Alleghany equity awards, pursuant to a
definitive agreement and plan of merger dated as of March 20, 2022. Alleghany
operates a group of property and casualty reinsurance and insurance
businesses. It also owns a portfolio of non-financial businesses.

K-82

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(2)

Significant business acquisitions (Continued)

The preliminary values of the Alleghany identified assets acquired and
liabilities assumed are summarized as follows (in millions). Valuations of
certain assets, such as intangible assets and goodwill, and certain
liabilities as of the acquisition date have not been finalized at this time
and are provisional.

|  |  |  
---|---|---|---  
  
Cash, cash equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bills

|

$

|

3,762

|  
  
Investments in fixed maturity and equity securities

|

|

15,982

|  
  
Loans and other receivables

|

|

5,650

|  
  
Goodwill and other intangible assets

|

|

6,362

|  
  
Other

|

|

3,834

|  
  
Assets acquired

|

$

|

35,590

|  
  
|

|  
  
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

|

$

|

15,080

|  
  
Unearned premiums

|

|

3,536

|  
  
Notes payable

|

|

2,169

|  
  
Other

|

|

3,300

|  
  
Liabilities assumed

|

|

24,085

|  
  
Net assets

|

$

|

11,505

|  
  
Alleghany's consolidated revenues and net earnings included in Berkshire's
Consolidated Financial Statements in 2022 were approximately $2.4 billion and
$216 million, respectively. The following table sets forth certain unaudited
pro forma consolidated earnings data for the years ending December 31, 2022
and 2021, as if the Alleghany acquisition was consummated on the same terms at
the beginning of 2021 (in millions, except per share amounts).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Revenues

|

$

|

311,184

|

|

|

$

|

287,450

|  
  
Net earnings (loss) attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders

|

|

(24,107

|

)

|

|

|

90,728

|  
  
Net earnings (loss) per equivalent Class A common share

|

|

(16,412

|

)

|

|

|

60,077

|  
  
Berkshire Hathaway Energy ("BHE") acquired certain businesses of Dominion
Energy, Inc. ("Dominion") on November 1, 2020 for cash of approximately $2.5
billion. The acquired businesses included natural gas transmission, gathering
and storage pipelines, natural gas storage capacity and partial ownership of a
liquefied natural gas export, import and storage facility ("Cove Point"). As
part of the Dominion acquisition, BHE acquired an indirect 25% economic
interest in Cove Point, consisting of 100% of the general partnership interest
and 25% of the limited partnership interests. We concluded that Cove Point is
a VIE and that we have the power to direct the activities that most
significantly impact its economic performance as well as the obligation to
absorb losses and receive benefits which could be significant to Cove Point.
Therefore, we treat Cove Point as a consolidated subsidiary.

(3)

Investments in fixed maturity securities

Investments in fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 are
summarized by type below (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Amortized  
Cost

|

|

|

Unrealized  
Gains

|

|

|

Unrealized  
Losses

|

|

|

Fair  
Value

|  
  
December 31, 2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
U.S. Treasury, U.S. government corporations and agencies

|

$

|

10,039

|

|

|

$

|

12

|

|

|

$

|

(249

|

)

|

|

$

|

9,802

|  
  
Foreign governments

|

|

10,454

|

|

|

|

50

|

|

|

|

(177

|

)

|

|

|

10,327

|  
  
Corporate bonds

|

|

1,945

|

|

|

|

256

|

|

|

|

(6

|

)

|

|

|

2,195

|  
  
Other

|

|

2,735

|

|

|

|

77

|

|

|

|

(8

|

)

|

|

|

2,804

|  
  
|

$

|

25,173

|

|

|

$

|

395

|

|

|

$

|

(440

|

)

|

|

$

|

25,128

|  
  
December 31, 2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
U.S. Treasury, U.S. government corporations and agencies

|

$

|

3,286

|

|

|

$

|

22

|

|

|

$

|

(5

|

)

|

|

$

|

3,303

|  
  
Foreign governments

|

|

10,998

|

|

|

|

29

|

|

|

|

(33

|

)

|

|

|

10,994

|  
  
Corporate bonds

|

|

1,363

|

|

|

|

412

|

|

|

|

(1

|

)

|

|

|

1,774

|  
  
Other

|

|

317

|

|

|

|

47

|

|

|

|

(1

|

)

|

|

|

363

|  
  
|

$

|

15,964

|

|

|

$

|

510

|

|

|

$

|

(40

|

)

|

|

$

|

16,434

|  
  
K-83

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(3)

Investments in fixed maturity securities (Continued)

The fair value of investments in U.S. Treasury securities as of December 31,
2022 included approximately $9.1 billion of securities that mature in 2023 and
2024. Investments in foreign governments include securities issued by national
and provincial government entities as well as instruments that are
unconditionally guaranteed by such entities. As of December 31, 2022,
approximately 93% of our foreign government holdings were rated AA or higher
by at least one of the major rating agencies. The amortized cost and estimated
fair value of fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2022 are summarized
below by contractual maturity dates. Amounts are in millions. Actual
maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to prepayment rights
held by issuers.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Due in one  
year or less

|

|

|

Due after one  
year through  
five years

|

|

|

Due after five  
years through  
ten years

|

|

|

Due after  
ten years

|

|

|

Mortgage-backed  
securities

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
Amortized cost

|

$

|

7,720

|

|

|

$

|

13,413

|

|

|

$

|

1,393

|

|

|

$

|

842

|

|

|

$

|

1,805

|

|

|

$

|

25,173

|  
  
Fair value

|

|

7,660

|

|

|

|

13,122

|

|

|

|

1,627

|

|

|

|

864

|

|

|

|

1,855

|

|

|

|

25,128

|  
  
(4)

Investments in equity securities

Investments in equity securities as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 are
summarized based on the primary industry of the investee in the table below
(in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Cost  
Basis

|

|

|

Net  
Unrealized  
Gains

|

|

|

Fair  
Value

|  
  
December 31, 2022 *

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Banks, insurance and finance

|

|

$

|

25,893

|

|

|

$

|

43,663

|

|

|

$

|

69,556

|  
  
Consumer products

|

|

|

40,508

|

|

|

|

112,384

|

|

|

|

152,892

|  
  
Commercial, industrial and other

|

|

|

65,209

|

|

|

|

21,136

|

|

|

|

86,345

|  
  
|

|

$

|

131,610

|

|

|

$

|

177,183

|

|

|

$

|

308,793

|  
  
* Approximately 75% of the aggregate fair value was concentrated in five companies (American Express Company - $22.4 billion; Apple Inc. - $119.0 billion; Bank of America Corporation - $34.2 billion; The Coca-Cola Company - $25.4 billion and Chevron Corporation - $30.0 billion).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Cost  
Basis

|

|

|

Net  
Unrealized  
Gains

|

|

|

Fair  
Value

|  
  
December 31, 2021 *

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Banks, insurance and finance

|

|

$

|

26,822

|

|

|

$

|

62,236

|

|

|

$

|

89,058

|  
  
Consumer products

|

|

|

36,076

|

|

|

|

154,945

|

|

|

|

191,021

|  
  
Commercial, industrial and other

|

|

|

41,707

|

|

|

|

28,933

|

|

|

|

70,640

|  
  
|

|

$

|

104,605

|

|

|

$

|

246,114

|

|

|

$

|

350,719

|  
  
* Approximately 73% of the aggregate fair value was concentrated in four companies (American Express Company - $24.8 billion; Apple Inc. - $161.2 billion; Bank of America Corporation - $46.0 billion and The Coca-Cola Company - $23.7 billion).

During 2022, we began acquiring common stock of Occidental Petroleum
Corporation ("Occidental") and our aggregate voting interest exceeded 20% on
August 4, 2022. We adopted the equity method with respect to our investment in
Occidental common stock as of that date and included this investment in equity
method investments at December 31, 2022. See Note 5. We continue to report our
investments in Occidental Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and Occidental
common stock warrants at fair value as equity securities, as such interests
are not in-substance common stock under GAAP and are not eligible for the
equity method.

K-84

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(4)

Investments in equity securities (Continued)

Our investment in Occidental preferred stock has an aggregate liquidation
value of $10 billion and our investment in Occidental warrants allows us to
purchase up to 83.86 million shares of Occidental common stock at an exercise
price of $59.62 per share. The preferred stock accrues dividends at 8% per
annum and is redeemable at the option of Occidental commencing in 2029 at a
redemption price equal to 105% of the liquidation preference plus any
accumulated and unpaid dividends and is mandatorily redeemable at 110% of the
liquidation preference plus accrued dividends under specified events. The
warrants are exercisable in whole or in part until one year after the
redemption of the preferred stock.

As of December 31, 2022, we owned 20.4% of the outstanding common stock of the
American Express Company ("American Express"). Since 1995, we have been party
to an agreement with American Express whereby we agreed to vote a significant
portion of our shares in accordance with the recommendations of the American
Express Board of Directors. We have also agreed to passivity commitments as
requested by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, which
collectively, in our judgment, restrict our ability to exercise significant
influence over the operating and financial policies of American Express.
Accordingly, we do not use the equity method with respect to our investment in
American Express common stock and we continue to record our investment at fair
value.

(5)

Equity method investments

Berkshire and its subsidiaries hold investments in certain businesses that are
accounted for pursuant to the equity method. Currently, the most significant
of these are our investments in the common stock of The Kraft Heinz Company
("Kraft Heinz") and, as of August 4, 2022, Occidental. We own 26.6% of Kraft
Heinz common stock and 21.4% of Occidental common stock, which excludes the
potential effect of the exercise of Occidental common stock warrants. See Note
4.

Kraft Heinz manufactures and markets food and beverage products, including
condiments and sauces, cheese and dairy, meals, meats, refreshment beverages,
coffee and other grocery products. Occidental is an international energy
company, whose activities include oil and natural gas exploration, development
and production, and chemical manufacturing businesses. Occidental's midstream
businesses purchase, market, gather, process, transport and store various oil,
natural gas, carbon dioxide and other products. Occidental's financial
information is not available in time for concurrent reporting in our
consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we report the equity method
effects for Occidental on a one-quarter lag. Our earnings in the fourth
quarter of 2022 included our equity method share of Occidental's third quarter
earnings.

The common stock of Kraft Heinz and Occidental are publicly traded. The fair
values and carrying values of these two investments in addition to the
carrying values of our other significant equity method investments are
summarized as follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Carrying Value

|

|

|

Fair Value

|  
  
|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Kraft Heinz

|

$

|

12,937

|

|

|

$

|

13,112

|

|

|

$

|

13,249

|

|

|

$

|

11,683

|  
  
Occidental

|

|

11,484

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

12,242

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Other

|

|

3,629

|

|

|

|

2,933

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

$

|

28,050

|

|

|

$

|

16,045

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Our earnings and distributions received from significant equity method
investments are summarized in the table below (in millions). As previously
indicated, we are reporting the equity method effects for Occidental on a one-
quarter lag, thus the earnings we recorded in 2022 below do not reflect
Occidental's results for its fourth quarter.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Equity in Earnings

|

|

|

Distributions Received

|  
  
|

Year ended December 31,

|

|

|

Year ended December 31,

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Kraft Heinz

|

$

|

628

|

|

|

$

|

269

|

|

|

$

|

95

|

|

|

$

|

521

|

|

|

$

|

521

|

|

|

$

|

521

|  
  
Occidental

|

|

323

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

24

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Other

|

|

912

|

|

|

|

617

|

|

|

|

562

|

|

|

|

284

|

|

|

|

1,057

|

|

|

|

383

|  
  
|

$

|

1,863

|

|

|

$

|

886

|

|

|

$

|

657

|

|

|

$

|

829

|

|

|

$

|

1,578

|

|

|

$

|

904

|  
  
K-85

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(5)

Equity method investments (Continued)

Summarized consolidated financial information of Kraft Heinz follows (in
millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

December 31,  
2022

|

|

|

December 25,  
2021

|  
  
Assets

|

$

|

90,513

|

|

|

$

|

93,394

|  
  
Liabilities

|

|

41,643

|

|

|

|

43,942

|  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Year ending

|  
  
|

December 31, 2022

|

|

|

December 25, 2021

|

|

|

December 26, 2020

|  
  
Sales

|

$

|

26,485

|

|

|

$

|

26,042

|

|

|

$

|

26,185

|  
  
Net earnings attributable to Kraft Heinz common shareholders

|

|

2,363

|

|

|

|

1,012

|

|

|

|

356

|  
  
Summarized consolidated financial information of Occidental, reported on a one
quarter lag follows (in millions).

|  |  |  
---|---|---|---  
  
|

September 30,  
2022

|  
  
Assets

|

$

|

72,144

|  
  
Liabilities

|

|

43,424

|  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Third Quarter

|

|

|

First Nine Months

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2022

|  
  
Total revenues and other income

|

$

|

9,501

|

|

|

$

|

28,769

|  
  
Net earnings attributable to Occidental common shareholders

|

|

2,546

|

|

|

|

10,777

|  
  
Other significant investments accounted for pursuant to the equity method as
of December 31, 2022 included our investments in Pilot Travel Centers, LLC
("Pilot") and Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC ("Berkadia"). Since 2017, we
have owned a 38.6% interest in Pilot. We acquired an additional 41.4% interest
on January 31, 2023 and became the majority owner of Pilot at that date. As a
result, we discontinued the use of the equity method during the first quarter
of 2023. See Note 26. We own a 50% interest in Berkadia, with Jefferies
Financial Group Inc. ("Jefferies") owning the other 50% interest. Berkadia
provides capital solutions, investment sales advisory and mortgage servicing
for multifamily and commercial real estate. Berkadia's commercial paper
borrowing capacity (currently limited to $1.5 billion) is supported by a
surety policy issued by a Berkshire insurance subsidiary. Jefferies is
obligated to indemnify us for one-half of any losses incurred under the
policy.

(6)

Investment and derivative contract gains (losses)

Investment and derivative contract gains (losses) for each of the three years
ending December 31, 2022 are summarized as follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Investment gains (losses):

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Equity securities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Change in unrealized investment gains (losses) during the year on  
securities held at the end of the year

|

|

$

|

(63,120

|

)

|

|

$

|

76,375

|

|

|

$

|

54,951

|  
  
Investment gains (losses) during the year on securities sold

|

|

|

(3,927

|

)

|

|

|

997

|

|

|

|

(14,036

|

)  
  
|

|

|

(67,047

|

)

|

|

|

77,372

|

|

|

|

40,915

|  
  
Fixed maturity securities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Gross realized gains

|

|

|

134

|

|

|

|

85

|

|

|

|

56

|  
  
Gross realized losses

|

|

|

(684

|

)

|

|

|

(29

|

)

|

|

|

(27

|

)  
  
Other

|

|

|

(26

|

)

|

|

|

148

|

|

|

|

(39

|

)  
  
Investment gains (losses)

|

|

|

(67,623

|

)

|

|

|

77,576

|

|

|

|

40,905

|  
  
Derivative contract gains (losses)

|

|

|

(276

|

)

|

|

|

966

|

|

|

|

(159

|

)  
  
|

|

$

|

(67,899

|

)

|

|

$

|

78,542

|

|

|

$

|

40,746

|  
  
K-86

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(6)

Investment and derivative contract gains (losses) (Continued)

Equity securities gains and losses include unrealized gains and losses from
changes in fair values during the year on equity securities we still own, as
well as gains and losses on securities we sold during the year. As reflected
in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, we received proceeds of
approximately $33.7 billion in 2022, $15.8 billion in 2021 and $38.8 billion
in 2020 from sales of equity securities. In the preceding table, investment
gains and losses on equity securities sold during the year represent the
difference between the sales proceeds and the fair value of the equity
securities sold at the beginning of the applicable year or, if later, the
purchase date. Our taxable gains and losses on equity securities sold are
generally the difference between the proceeds from sales and original cost.
Equity securities sold produced taxable gains of $769 million in 2022, $3.6
billion in 2021 and $6.2 billion in 2020.

Our derivative contract gains and losses derived from equity index put option
contracts. As of December 31, 2022, we had three open contracts, one of which
has since expired. Our exposure to losses in the future is insignificant.

(7)

Loans and finance receivables

Loans and finance receivables are summarized as follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

December 31,

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Loans and finance receivables before allowances and discounts

|

$

|

24,664

|

|

|

$

|

22,065

|  
  
Allowances for credit losses

|

|

(856

|

)

|

|

|

(765

|

)  
  
Unamortized acquisition discounts and points

|

|

(600

|

)

|

|

|

(549

|

)  
  
|

$

|

23,208

|

|

|

$

|

20,751

|  
  
Loans and finance receivables are principally manufactured home loans, and to
a lesser extent, commercial loans and site-built home loans. Reconciliations
of the allowance for credit losses on loans and finance receivables for the
three years ending December 31, 2022 follow (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Balance at beginning of year

|

$

|

765

|

|

|

$

|

712

|

|

|

$

|

167

|  
  
Adoption of ASC 326

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

486

|  
  
Provision for credit losses

|

|

124

|

|

|

|

88

|

|

|

|

177

|  
  
Charge-offs, net of recoveries

|

|

(33

|

)

|

|

|

(35

|

)

|

|

|

(118

|

)  
  
Balance at December 31

|

$

|

856

|

|

|

$

|

765

|

|

|

$

|

712

|  
  
At December 31, 2022, substantially all manufactured and site-built home loan
balances were evaluated collectively for impairment. At December 31, 2022, we
considered approximately 96% of the loan balances to be current as to payment
status. A summary of performing and non-performing home loans before discounts
and allowances by year of loan origination as of December 31, 2022 follows (in
millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Origination Year

|

|

|

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

2019

|

|

|

2018

|

|

|

Prior

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
Performing

|

$

|

5,743

|

|

|

$

|

3,630

|

|

|

$

|

2,830

|

|

|

$

|

1,992

|

|

|

$

|

1,509

|

|

|

$

|

6,959

|

|

|

$

|

22,663

|  
  
Non-performing

|

|

4

|

|

|

|

9

|

|

|

|

9

|

|

|

|

8

|

|

|

|

6

|

|

|

|

46

|

|

|

|

82

|  
  
|

$

|

5,747

|

|

|

$

|

3,639

|

|

|

$

|

2,839

|

|

|

$

|

2,000

|

|

|

$

|

1,515

|

|

|

$

|

7,005

|

|

|

$

|

22,745

|  
  
We are the lender under several commercial loan agreements which had a
principal value of approximately $1.9 billion at December 31, 2022 and
December 31, 2021. The balance at December 31, 2022 included $450 million
acquired in connection with the Alleghany acquisition. Our largest commercial
loan is with Seritage Growth Properties ("Seritage") with an unpaid principal
balance of $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $1.4 billion as of
December 31, 2021. Our commercial loans are generally secured by mortgages on
real estate properties or by other assets and substantially all of these loans
are current as to payment status.

K-87

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(8)

Other receivables

Other receivables are comprised of the following (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

December 31,

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Insurance and other:

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance premiums receivable

|

$

|

18,398

|

|

|

$

|

15,050

|  
  
Reinsurance recoverables

|

|

7,119

|

|

|

|

4,900

|  
  
Trade receivables

|

|

14,510

|

|

|

|

12,971

|  
  
Other

|

|

4,154

|

|

|

|

3,146

|  
  
Allowances for credit losses

|

|

(675

|

)

|

|

|

(679

|

)  
  
|

$

|

43,506

|

|

|

$

|

35,388

|  
  
Railroad, utilities and energy:

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Trade receivables

|

$

|

4,182

|

|

|

$

|

3,678

|  
  
Other

|

|

754

|

|

|

|

650

|  
  
Allowances for credit losses

|

|

(141

|

)

|

|

|

(151

|

)  
  
|

$

|

4,795

|

|

|

$

|

4,177

|  
  
Provisions for credit losses with respect to receivables summarized above were
$409 million in 2022, $441 million in 2021 and $564 million in 2020. Charge-
offs, net of recoveries, were $432 million in 2022, $420 million in 2021 and
$401 million in 2020.

(9)

Inventories

Inventories are comprised of the following (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Raw materials

|

|

$

|

6,381

|

|

|

$

|

5,743

|  
  
Work in process and other

|

|

|

3,464

|

|

|

|

3,192

|  
  
Finished manufactured goods

|

|

|

5,739

|

|

|

|

4,530

|  
  
Goods acquired for resale

|

|

|

9,782

|

|

|

|

7,489

|  
  
|

|

$

|

25,366

|

|

|

$

|

20,954

|  
  
(10)

Property, plant and equipment

A summary of property, plant and equipment of our insurance and other
businesses follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Land, buildings and improvements

|

|

$

|

14,761

|

|

|

$

|

14,070

|  
  
Machinery and equipment

|

|

|

26,690

|

|

|

|

26,063

|  
  
Furniture, fixtures and other

|

|

|

4,847

|

|

|

|

4,640

|  
  
|

|

|

46,298

|

|

|

|

44,773

|  
  
Accumulated depreciation

|

|

|

(25,185

|

)

|

|

|

(23,939

|

)  
  
|

|

$

|

21,113

|

|

|

$

|

20,834

|  
  
K-88

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(10)

Property, plant and equipment (Continued)

A summary of property, plant and equipment of railroad and utilities and
energy businesses follows (in millions). The utility generation, transmission
and distribution systems and interstate natural gas pipeline assets are owned
by regulated public utility and natural gas pipeline subsidiaries.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Railroad:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Land, track structure and other roadway

|

|

$

|

67,350

|

|

|

$

|

65,843

|  
  
Locomotives, freight cars and other equipment

|

|

|

16,031

|

|

|

|

13,822

|  
  
Construction in progress

|

|

|

1,743

|

|

|

|

1,027

|  
  
|

|

|

85,124

|

|

|

|

80,692

|  
  
Accumulated depreciation

|

|

|

(17,899

|

)

|

|

|

(14,978

|

)  
  
|

|

|

67,225

|

|

|

|

65,714

|  
  
Utilities and energy:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Utility generation, transmission and distribution systems

|

|

|

92,759

|

|

|

|

90,223

|  
  
Interstate natural gas pipeline assets

|

|

|

18,328

|

|

|

|

17,423

|  
  
Independent power plants and other assets

|

|

|

14,650

|

|

|

|

13,695

|  
  
Construction in progress

|

|

|

5,357

|

|

|

|

4,196

|  
  
|

|

|

131,094

|

|

|

|

125,537

|  
  
Accumulated depreciation

|

|

|

(38,051

|

)

|

|

|

(35,721

|

)  
  
|

|

|

93,043

|

|

|

|

89,816

|  
  
|

|

$

|

160,268

|

|

|

$

|

155,530

|  
  
Depreciation expense for each of the three years ending December 31, 2022 is
summarized below (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Insurance and other

|

|

$

|

2,276

|

|

|

$

|

2,318

|

|

|

$

|

2,320

|  
  
Railroad, utilities and energy

|

|

|

6,181

|

|

|

|

5,990

|

|

|

|

5,799

|  
  
|

|

$

|

8,457

|

|

|

$

|

8,308

|

|

|

$

|

8,119

|  
  
(11)

Equipment held for lease

Equipment held for lease includes railcars, aircraft, and other equipment,
including over-the-road trailers, intermodal tank containers, cranes, storage
units and furniture. Equipment held for lease is summarized below (in
millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Railcars

|

|

$

|

9,612

|

|

|

$

|

9,448

|  
  
Aircraft

|

|

|

10,667

|

|

|

|

9,234

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

5,212

|

|

|

|

5,053

|  
  
|

|

|

25,491

|

|

|

|

23,735

|  
  
Accumulated depreciation

|

|

|

(9,907

|

)

|

|

|

(8,817

|

)  
  
|

|

$

|

15,584

|

|

|

$

|

14,918

|  
  
K-89

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(11)

Equipment held for lease (Continued)

Depreciation expense for equipment held for lease was $1,209 million in 2022,
$1,158 million in 2021 and $1,200 million in 2020. Fixed and variable
operating lease revenues for each of the three years ending December 31, 2022
are summarized below (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Fixed lease revenue

|

|

$

|

5,184

|

|

|

$

|

4,482

|

|

|

$

|

4,262

|  
  
Variable lease revenue

|

|

|

2,330

|

|

|

|

1,506

|

|

|

|

947

|  
  
|

|

$

|

7,514

|

|

|

$

|

5,988

|

|

|

$

|

5,209

|  
  
A summary of future operating lease receipts as of December 31, 2022 follows
(in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2023

|

|

|

2024

|

|

|

2025

|

|

|

2026

|

|

|

2027

|

|

|

Thereafter

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
$

|

3,365

|

|

|

$

|

2,687

|

|

|

$

|

1,992

|

|

|

$

|

1,373

|

|

|

$

|

673

|

|

|

$

|

299

|

|

|

$

|

10,389

|  
  
(12)

Leases

We are party to contracts where we lease property from others under contracts
classified as operating leases. We primarily lease buildings, offices and
operating facilities. Operating lease right-of-use assets are included in
other assets and operating lease liabilities are included in accounts payable,
accruals and other liabilities. Information related to our operating leases
follows (dollars in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Right-of-use assets

|

|

|

Lease liabilities

|

|

|

Weighted average remaining term in years

|

|

|

Weighted average discount rate used to measure liabilities

|

|  
  
December 31, 2022

|

|

$

|

4,975

|

|

|

$

|

4,939

|

|

|

|

7.0

|

|

|

|

3.7

|

%

|  
  
December 31, 2021

|

|

|

5,091

|

|

|

|

4,991

|

|

|

|

7.2

|

|

|

|

3.5

|

%

|  
  
A summary of our remaining future operating lease payments reconciled to lease
liabilities as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 follows (in
millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year 1

|

|

|

Year 2

|

|

|

Year 3

|

|

|

Year 4

|

|

|

Year 5

|

|

|

Thereafter

|

|

|

Total  
lease  
payments

|

|

|

Amount  
representing  
interest

|

|

|

Lease  
liabilities

|  
  
December 31:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2022

|

|

$

|

1,283

|

|

|

$

|

1,073

|

|

|

$

|

822

|

|

|

$

|

560

|

|

|

$

|

449

|

|

|

$

|

1,464

|

|

|

$

|

5,651

|

|

|

$

|

(712

|

)

|

|

$

|

4,939

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

1,238

|

|

|

|

1,038

|

|

|

|

835

|

|

|

|

631

|

|

|

|

418

|

|

|

|

1,571

|

|

|

|

5,731

|

|

|

|

(740

|

)

|

|

|

4,991

|  
  
Components of operating lease costs for the three years ending December 31,
2022, by type, are summarized in the following table (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|  
  
Operating lease cost

|

|

$

|

1,361

|

|

|

$

|

1,426

|

|

|

$

|

1,413

|

|  
  
Short-term lease cost

|

|

|

233

|

|

|

|

154

|

|

|

|

145

|

|  
  
Variable lease cost

|

|

|

217

|

|

|

|

223

|

|

|

|

228

|

|  
  
Sublease income

|

|

|

(12

|

)

|

|

|

(10

|

)

|

|

|

(10

|

)

|  
  
Total lease cost

|

|

$

|

1,799

|

|

|

$

|

1,793

|

|

|

$

|

1,776

|

|  
  
K-90

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(13)

Goodwill and other intangible assets

Reconciliations of the changes in the carrying value of goodwill during 2022
and 2021 follow (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Balance at beginning of year

|

|

$

|

73,875

|

|

|

$

|

73,734

|  
  
Business acquisitions

|

|

|

4,657

|

|

|

|

353

|  
  
Other, including foreign currency translation

|

|

|

(413

|

)

|

|

|

(212

|

)  
  
Balance at end of year*

|

|

$

|

78,119

|

|

|

$

|

73,875

|  
  
* Net of accumulated goodwill impairments of $11.0 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021

The gross carrying amounts and related accumulated amortization of other
intangible assets are summarized as follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31, 2022

|

|

|

December 31, 2021

|  
  
|

|

Gross  
carrying  
amount

|

|

|

Accumulated  
amortization

|

|

|

Net  
carrying  
value

|

|

|

Gross  
carrying  
amount

|

|

|

Accumulated  
amortization

|

|

|

Net  
carrying  
value

|  
  
Insurance and other:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Customer relationships

|

|

$

|

27,765

|

|

|

$

|

7,174

|

|

|

$

|

20,591

|

|

|

$

|

27,335

|

|

|

$

|

6,450

|

|

|

$

|

20,885

|  
  
Trademarks and trade names

|

|

|

5,603

|

|

|

|

822

|

|

|

|

4,781

|

|

|

|

5,176

|

|

|

|

802

|

|

|

|

4,374

|  
  
Patents and technology

|

|

|

4,943

|

|

|

|

3,748

|

|

|

|

1,195

|

|

|

|

4,763

|

|

|

|

3,484

|

|

|

|

1,279

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

4,150

|

|

|

|

1,530

|

|

|

|

2,620

|

|

|

|

3,390

|

|

|

|

1,442

|

|

|

|

1,948

|  
  
|

|

$

|

42,461

|

|

|

$

|

13,274

|

|

|

$

|

29,187

|

|

|

$

|

40,664

|

|

|

$

|

12,178

|

|

|

$

|

28,486

|  
  
Railroad, utilities and energy:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Customer relationships and contracts and other

|

|

$

|

1,914

|

|

|

$

|

622

|

|

|

$

|

1,292

|

|

|

$

|

1,693

|

|

|

$

|

542

|

|

|

$

|

1,151

|  
  
Intangible asset amortization expense was $1,233 million in 2022, $1,252
million in 2021 and $1,277 million in 2020. Estimated amortization expense
over the next five years is as follows (in millions): 2023 - $1,253; 2024 -
$1,128; 2025 - $1,081; 2026 - $1,000 and 2027 - $877. Intangible assets with
indefinite lives were $18.3 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $18.5 billion
as of December 31, 2021 and primarily related to certain customer
relationships and trademarks and trade names.

(14)

Supplemental cash flow information

A summary of supplemental cash flow information for each of the three years
ending December 31, 2022 is presented in the following table (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Cash paid during the year for:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Income taxes

|

|

$

|

4,236

|

|

|

$

|

5,412

|

|

|

$

|

5,001

|  
  
Interest:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance and other

|

|

|

1,150

|

|

|

|

1,227

|

|

|

|

1,001

|  
  
Railroad, utilities and energy

|

|

|

3,195

|

|

|

|

3,162

|

|

|

|

3,006

|  
  
Other adjustments to reconcile net earnings to operating cash flows:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Foreign currency exchange (gains) losses

|

|

|

(2,148

|

)

|

|

|

(1,433

|

)

|

|

|

1,074

|  
  
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

10,671

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

(2,176

|

)

|

|

|

(1,964

|

)

|

|

|

(482

|

)  
  
Non-cash investing and financing activities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Liabilities assumed in connection with business acquisitions

|

|

|

24,186

|

|

|

|

102

|

|

|

|

6,981

|  
  
Operating lease liabilities arising from obtaining right-of-use assets

|

|

|

1,118

|

|

|

|

687

|

|

|

|

729

|  
  
K-91

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(15)

Dividend restrictions - Insurance subsidiaries

Payments of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by
insurance statutes and regulations. Without prior regulatory approval, our
principal insurance subsidiaries may declare up to approximately $35 billion
as ordinary dividends during 2023. Investments in fixed maturity and equity
securities and short-term investments on deposit with U.S. state insurance
authorities in accordance with state insurance regulations were approximately
$4.9 billion at December 31, 2022 and $6.4 billion at December 31, 2021.

Combined shareholders' equity of U.S.-based insurance subsidiaries determined
pursuant to statutory accounting rules (Surplus as Regards Policyholders) was
approximately $272 billion at December 31, 2022 and $301 billion at December
31, 2021. Statutory surplus differs from the corresponding amount based on
GAAP due to differences in accounting for certain assets and liabilities. For
instance, deferred charges reinsurance assumed, deferred policy acquisition
costs, unrealized gains on certain investments and related deferred income
taxes are recognized for GAAP but not for statutory reporting purposes. In
addition, the carrying values of certain assets, such as goodwill and non-
insurance entities owned by our insurance subsidiaries, are not fully
recognized for statutory reporting purposes.

(16)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

Our liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (also referred
to as "claim liabilities") under property and casualty insurance and
reinsurance contracts are based upon estimates of the ultimate claim costs
associated with claim occurrences as of the balance sheet date and include
estimates for incurred-but-not-reported ("IBNR") claims. A reconciliation of
the changes in claim liabilities, excluding liabilities under retroactive
reinsurance contracts (see Note 17), for each of the three years ending
December 31, 2022 follows (in millions). The changes in claim liabilities in
2022 within this table include Alleghany's property and casualty claim
liabilities beginning as of the October 19, 2022 acquisition date.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Balances at beginning of year:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Gross liabilities

|

$

|

86,664

|

|

|

$

|

79,854

|

|

|

$

|

73,019

|  
  
Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses

|

|

(2,960

|

)

|

|

|

(2,912

|

)

|

|

|

(2,855

|

)  
  
Net liabilities

|

|

83,704

|

|

|

|

76,942

|

|

|

|

70,164

|  
  
Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Current accident year

|

|

59,463

|

|

|

|

52,099

|

|

|

|

43,400

|  
  
Prior accident years

|

|

(2,672

|

)

|

|

|

(3,116

|

)

|

|

|

(356

|

)  
  
Total

|

|

56,791

|

|

|

|

48,983

|

|

|

|

43,044

|  
  
Paid losses and loss adjustment expenses:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Current accident year

|

|

(27,236

|

)

|

|

|

(22,897

|

)

|

|

|

(17,884

|

)  
  
Prior accident years

|

|

(23,083

|

)

|

|

|

(18,904

|

)

|

|

|

(18,862

|

)  
  
Total

|

|

(50,319

|

)

|

|

|

(41,801

|

)

|

|

|

(36,746

|

)  
  
Foreign currency effect

|

|

(508

|

)

|

|

|

(420

|

)

|

|

|

480

|  
  
Net liabilities of acquired businesses (see Note 2)

|

|

12,779

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Balances at December 31:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Net liabilities

|

|

102,447

|

|

|

|

83,704

|

|

|

|

76,942

|  
  
Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses

|

|

5,025

|

|

|

|

2,960

|

|

|

|

2,912

|  
  
Gross liabilities

|

$

|

107,472

|

|

|

$

|

86,664

|

|

|

$

|

79,854

|  
  
Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses shown in the preceding table were
recorded in earnings and related to insured events occurring in the current
year ("current accident year") and events occurring in all prior years ("prior
accident years"). Incurred and paid losses and loss adjustment expenses are
net of reinsurance recoveries. Current accident year incurred losses from
significant catastrophe events (losses in excess of $150 million per event)
were approximately $3.1 billion in 2022 ($2.5 billion from Hurricane Ian),
$2.9 billion in 2021 and $950 million in 2020. Significant catastrophe events
in 2021 included Hurricane Ida ($1.5 billion), Winter Storm Uri and floods in
Europe, while significant catastrophe events in 2020 included losses from
Hurricanes Laura and Sally (about $600 million in the aggregate) and U.S.
wildfires. Current accident year incurred losses for private passenger auto
insurance increased significantly in 2022 and 2021, attributable to increases
in claims frequencies and severities.

K-92

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(16)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (Continued)

We recorded net reductions of estimated ultimate liabilities for prior
accident years of $2.7 billion in 2022, $3.1 billion in 2021 and $356 million
in 2020, which produced corresponding reductions in incurred losses and loss
adjustment expenses in those periods. These reductions, as percentages of the
net liabilities at the beginning of each year, were 3.2% in 2022, 4.0% in 2021
and 0.5% in 2020.

We reduced estimated ultimate liabilities for prior accident years of primary
insurance businesses by $1.1 billion in 2022, $2.4 billion in 2021 and $518
million in 2020. The reductions in each year derived primarily from private
passenger auto, medical professional liability and workers' compensation
claims, partly offset by increases with respect to other casualty claims.
Estimated ultimate liabilities for prior accident years of property and
casualty reinsurance businesses were reduced $1.6 billion in 2022 and $718
million in 2021 and increased $162 million in 2020. The reductions in 2022 and
2021 reflected reduced estimates for both property and casualty claims. In
2020, increases in casualty claims estimates were partly offset by reductions
in property estimates.

Estimated net claim liabilities for environmental, asbestos and other latent
injury exposures were approximately $2.1 billion at December 31, 2022 and
2021. These liabilities are subject to change due to changes in the legal and
regulatory environment. We are unable to reliably estimate additional losses
or a range of losses that are reasonably possible for these claims.

Disaggregated information concerning our claims liabilities is provided below
and in the pages that follow. The accident year data for Alleghany's primary
insurance business is included in Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group ("BH
Primary") and for its reinsurance business is included in Berkshire Hathaway
Reinsurance Group ("BHRG") on a retrospective basis. A reconciliation of the
disaggregated net unpaid losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses (the
latter referred to as "ALAE") of GEICO, BH Primary and BHRG to our
consolidated unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31,
2022 follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

GEICO

|

|

|

BH Primary

|

|

|

BHRG

|

|

|

|  
  
|

Physical  
Damage

|

|

|

Auto  
Liability

|

|

|

Medical  
Professional  
Liability

|

|

|

Workers'  
Compensation/  
Other Casualty

|

|

|

Property

|

|

|

Casualty

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
Unpaid losses and ALAE, net

|

$

|

884

|

|

|

$

|

20,930

|

|

|

$

|

8,980

|

|

|

$

|

18,491

|

|

|

$

|

16,552

|

|

|

$

|

31,366

|

|

|

$

|

97,203

|  
  
Reinsurance recoverable

|

|

5

|

|

|

|

867

|

|

|

|

28

|

|

|

|

1,543

|

|

|

|

787

|

|

|

|

1,439

|

|

|

|

4,669

|  
  
Unallocated loss adjustment  
expenses

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

2,232

|  
  
Other losses and loss adjustment  
expenses

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

3,368

|  
  
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment  
expenses

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

107,472

|  
  
GEICO

GEICO's claim liabilities predominantly relate to various types of private
passenger auto liability and physical damage claims. For such claims, we
establish and evaluate unpaid claim liabilities using standard actuarial loss
development methods and techniques. The actuarial methods utilize historical
claims data, adjusted when deemed appropriate to reflect perceived changes in
loss patterns. Claim liabilities include average, case, case development and
IBNR estimates.

We establish average liabilities based on expected severities for newly
reported physical damage and liability claims prior to establishing individual
case reserves when insufficient time or information is available for specific
claim estimates and for large volumes of minor physical damage claims that
once reported are quickly settled. We establish case loss estimates for
liability claims, including estimates for loss adjustment expenses, as the
facts and merits of the claim are evaluated.

Claim estimates for liability coverages normally reflect greater uncertainty
than physical damage coverages, primarily due to the longer claim-tails, the
greater chance of litigation and the time needed to evaluate facts at the time
the case estimate is first established. The "claim-tail" is the period between
the claim occurrence date and claim settlement or payment date. Consequently,
we establish additional case development liabilities, which are usually
percentages of the case liabilities. For unreported claims, IBNR liabilities
are estimated by projecting the ultimate number of claims expected (reported
and unreported) for each significant coverage and deducting reported claims to
produce estimated unreported claims. The product of the average cost per
unreported claim and the number of unreported claims produces the IBNR
liability estimate. We may record supplemental IBNR liabilities in certain
situations when actuarial techniques are difficult to apply.

K-93

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(16)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (Continued)

GEICO's net incurred and paid auto physical damage and liability losses and
ALAE are summarized by accident year below. IBNR and case development
liabilities are as of December 31, 2022. Claim counts are established when
accidents that may result in a liability are reported and are based on policy
coverage. Each claim event may generate claims under multiple coverages, and
thus may result in multiple counts. The "Cumulative Number of Reported Claims"
includes the combined number of reported claims for all auto policy coverages.
Dollars are in millions.

Physical Damage

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Incurred Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|

|

|

Cumulative  
Number of

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

IBNR and Case  
Development  
Liabilities

|

|

|

Reported  
Claims  
(in thousands)

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

$

|

12,135

|

|

|

$

|

11,968

|

|

|

$

|

70

|

|

|

|

9,141

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

14,138

|

|

|

|

610

|

|

|

|

8,986

|  
  
|

|

Incurred losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

26,106

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Cumulative Paid Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

$

|

11,427

|

|

|

$

|

11,978

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

13,251

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Paid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

|

25,229

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE for 2021 - 2022 accident years

|

|

|

|

877

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE for accident years before 2021

|

|

|

|

7

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

884

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Auto Liability

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Incurred Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|

|

|

Cumulative  
Number of

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

2018*

|

|

|

2019*

|

|

|

2020*

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

IBNR and Case  
Development  
Liabilities

|

|

|

Reported  
Claims  
(in thousands)

|  
  
2018

|

|

$

|

15,383

|

|

|

$

|

15,226

|

|

|

$

|

14,985

|

|

|

$

|

14,838

|

|

|

$

|

14,854

|

|

|

$

|

259

|

|

|

|

2,720

|  
  
2019

|

|

|

|

|

|

16,901

|

|

|

|

16,678

|

|

|

|

16,191

|

|

|

|

16,151

|

|

|

|

566

|

|

|

|

2,790

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

14,637

|

|

|

|

14,024

|

|

|

|

13,697

|

|

|

|

1,182

|

|

|

|

2,111

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

17,481

|

|

|

|

17,457

|

|

|

|

2,994

|

|

|

|

2,413

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

19,645

|

|

|

|

6,275

|

|

|

|

2,166

|  
  
|

|

Incurred losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

81,804

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Cumulative Paid Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

2018*

|

|

|

2019*

|

|

|

2020*

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2018

|

|

$

|

6,218

|

|

|

$

|

10,772

|

|

|

$

|

12,658

|

|

|

$

|

13,757

|

|

|

$

|

14,337

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2019

|

|

|

|

|

|

6,742

|

|

|

|

11,671

|

|

|

|

13,851

|

|

|

|

15,084

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

5,395

|

|

|

|

9,839

|

|

|

|

11,794

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

6,450

|

|

|

|

12,681

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

7,614

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Paid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

|

61,510

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE for 2018 - 2022 accident years

|

|

|

|

20,294

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE for accident years before 2018

|

|

|

|

636

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

20,930

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
* Unaudited required supplemental information

K-94

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(16)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (Continued)

BH Primary

BH Primary's liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
primarily derive from medical professional liability and workers' compensation
and other casualty insurance, which includes commercial auto and general
liability insurance. Net incurred and paid losses and ALAE are summarized by
accident year in the following tables, disaggregated by medical professional
liability coverages and workers' compensation and other casualty coverages.
IBNR and case development liabilities are as of December 31, 2022. The
cumulative number of reported claims reflects the number of individual
claimants and includes claims that ultimately resulted in no liability or
payment. Dollars are in millions.

Medical Professional Liability

We estimate the ultimate expected incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses
for medical professional claim liabilities using a variety of commonly
accepted actuarial methodologies, such as the paid and incurred development
method and Bornhuetter-Ferguson based methods, as well as other techniques
that consider insured loss exposures and historical and expected loss trends,
among other factors. These methodologies produce loss estimates from which we
determine our best estimate. In addition, we study developments in older
accident years and adjust initial loss estimates to reflect recent
developments based upon claim age, coverage and litigation experience.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Incurred Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|

|

|

Cumulative  
Number of

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

2013*

|

|

|

2014*

|

|

|

2015*

|

|

|

2016*

|

|

|

2017*

|

|

|

2018*

|

|

|

2019*

|

|

|

2020*

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

IBNR and Case  
Development  
Liabilities

|

|

|

Reported  
Claims  
(in thousands)

|  
  
2013

|

|

$

|

1,328

|

|

|

$

|

1,296

|

|

|

$

|

1,261

|

|

|

$

|

1,195

|

|

|

$

|

1,127

|

|

|

$

|

1,086

|

|

|

$

|

1,019

|

|

|

$

|

985

|

|

|

$

|

978

|

|

|

$

|

979

|

|

|

$

|

37

|

|

|

|

11

|  
  
2014

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,370

|

|

|

|

1,375

|

|

|

|

1,305

|

|

|

|

1,246

|

|

|

|

1,218

|

|

|

|

1,127

|

|

|

|

1,061

|

|

|

|

1,033

|

|

|

|

1,029

|

|

|

|

74

|

|

|

|

11

|  
  
2015

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,374

|

|

|

|

1,342

|

|

|

|

1,269

|

|

|

|

1,290

|

|

|

|

1,218

|

|

|

|

1,157

|

|

|

|

1,093

|

|

|

|

1,033

|

|

|

|

84

|

|

|

|

12

|  
  
2016

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,392

|

|

|

|

1,416

|

|

|

|

1,414

|

|

|

|

1,394

|

|

|

|

1,341

|

|

|

|

1,288

|

|

|

|

1,216

|

|

|

|

141

|

|

|

|

15

|  
  
2017

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,466

|

|

|

|

1,499

|

|

|

|

1,495

|

|

|

|

1,474

|

|

|

|

1,382

|

|

|

|

1,349

|

|

|

|

228

|

|

|

|

21

|  
  
2018

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,602

|

|

|

|

1,650

|

|

|

|

1,659

|

|

|

|

1,580

|

|

|

|

1,616

|

|

|

|

289

|

|

|

|

24

|  
  
2019

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,670

|

|

|

|

1,691

|

|

|

|

1,663

|

|

|

|

1,614

|

|

|

|

584

|

|

|

|

21

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,704

|

|

|

|

1,751

|

|

|

|

1,698

|

|

|

|

959

|

|

|

|

30

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,852

|

|

|

|

1,855

|

|

|

|

1,444

|

|

|

|

20

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,927

|

|

|

|

1,749

|

|

|

|

12

|  
  
|

|

Incurred losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

14,316

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Cumulative Paid Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

2013*

|

|

|

2014*

|

|

|

2015*

|

|

|

2016*

|

|

|

2017*

|

|

|

2018*

|

|

|

2019*

|

|

|

2020*

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2013

|

|

$

|

15

|

|

|

$

|

90

|

|

|

$

|

219

|

|

|

$

|

368

|

|

|

$

|

518

|

|

|

$

|

635

|

|

|

$

|

743

|

|

|

$

|

793

|

|

|

$

|

821

|

|

|

$

|

853

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2014

|

|

|

|

|

|

21

|

|

|

|

106

|

|

|

|

238

|

|

|

|

396

|

|

|

|

540

|

|

|

|

671

|

|

|

|

752

|

|

|

|

788

|

|

|

|

840

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2015

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

23

|

|

|

|

108

|

|

|

|

218

|

|

|

|

382

|

|

|

|

543

|

|

|

|

663

|

|

|

|

719

|

|

|

|

799

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2016

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

22

|

|

|

|

115

|

|

|

|

274

|

|

|

|

461

|

|

|

|

620

|

|

|

|

712

|

|

|

|

822

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2017

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

27

|

|

|

|

128

|

|

|

|

300

|

|

|

|

457

|

|

|

|

582

|

|

|

|

739

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2018

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

35

|

|

|

|

166

|

|

|

|

367

|

|

|

|

543

|

|

|

|

728

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2019

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

39

|

|

|

|

160

|

|

|

|

314

|

|

|

|

536

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

34

|

|

|

|

148

|

|

|

|

321

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

36

|

|

|

|

136

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

38

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Paid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

|

5,812

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE for 2013 - 2022 accident years

|

|

|

|

8,504

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE for accident years before 2013

|

|

|

|

476

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

8,980

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
* Unaudited required supplemental information

K-95

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(16)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (Continued)

Workers' Compensation and Other Casualty

We periodically evaluate ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense estimates
for the workers' compensation and other casualty claims using a combination of
commonly accepted actuarial methodologies such as the Bornhuetter-Ferguson and
chain-ladder approaches using paid and incurred loss data. Paid and incurred
loss data is segregated and analyzed by state due to the different state
regulatory frameworks that may impact certain factors, including the duration
and amount of loss payments. We also separately study the various components
of liabilities, such as employee lost wages, medical expenses and the costs of
claims investigations and administration. We establish case liabilities for
reported claims based upon the facts and circumstances of the claim. The
excess of the ultimate projected losses, including the expected development of
case estimates, and the case-basis liabilities is included in IBNR
liabilities. As previously noted, Alleghany was acquired on October 19, 2022.
Alleghany's incurred and paid losses and ALAE are included for all years
presented retrospectively.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Incurred Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|

|

|

Cumulative  
Number of

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

2013*

|

|

|

2014*

|

|

|

2015*

|

|

|

2016*

|

|

|

2017*

|

|

|

2018*

|

|

|

2019*

|

|

|

2020*

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

IBNR and Case  
Development  
Liabilities

|

|

|

Reported  
Claims  
(in thousands)

|  
  
2013

|

|

$

|

1,602

|

|

|

$

|

1,574

|

|

|

$

|

1,541

|

|

|

$

|

1,491

|

|

|

$

|

1,462

|

|

|

$

|

1,435

|

|

|

$

|

1,407

|

|

|

$

|

1,376

|

|

|

$

|

1,360

|

|

|

$

|

1,340

|

|

|

$

|

101

|

|

|

|

78

|  
  
2014

|

|

|

|

|

|

2,138

|

|

|

|

2,064

|

|

|

|

2,036

|

|

|

|

1,970

|

|

|

|

1,901

|

|

|

|

1,906

|

|

|

|

1,875

|

|

|

|

1,861

|

|

|

|

1,829

|

|

|

|

153

|

|

|

|

103

|  
  
2015

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

2,580

|

|

|

|

2,539

|

|

|

|

2,455

|

|

|

|

2,426

|

|

|

|

2,428

|

|

|

|

2,402

|

|

|

|

2,408

|

|

|

|

2,393

|

|

|

|

249

|

|

|

|

121

|  
  
2016

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

2,931

|

|

|

|

2,848

|

|

|

|

2,793

|

|

|

|

2,772

|

|

|

|

2,815

|

|

|

|

2,825

|

|

|

|

2,864

|

|

|

|

409

|

|

|

|

125

|  
  
2017

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

3,473

|

|

|

|

3,337

|

|

|

|

3,299

|

|

|

|

3,310

|

|

|

|

3,322

|

|

|

|

3,320

|

|

|

|

477

|

|

|

|

144

|  
  
2018

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

3,998

|

|

|

|

3,886

|

|

|

|

3,967

|

|

|

|

4,030

|

|

|

|

4,091

|

|

|

|

841

|

|

|

|

164

|  
  
2019

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

4,584

|

|

|

|

4,623

|

|

|

|

4,692

|

|

|

|

4,763

|

|

|

|

1,057

|

|

|

|

185

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

5,030

|

|

|

|

4,881

|

|

|

|

4,775

|

|

|

|

1,858

|

|

|

|

155

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

5,899

|

|

|

|

5,856

|

|

|

|

3,105

|

|

|

|

311

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

6,796

|

|

|

|

4,889

|

|

|

|

285

|  
  
|

|

Incurred losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

38,027

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Cumulative Paid Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

2013*

|

|

|

2014*

|

|

|

2015*

|

|

|

2016*

|

|

|

2017*

|

|

|

2018*

|

|

|

2019*

|

|

|

2020*

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2013

|

|

$

|

210

|

|

|

$

|

520

|

|

|

$

|

774

|

|

|

$

|

941

|

|

|

$

|

1,049

|

|

|

$

|

1,111

|

|

|

$

|

1,147

|

|

|

$

|

1,173

|

|

|

$

|

1,194

|

|

|

$

|

1,209

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2014

|

|

|

|

|

|

286

|

|

|

|

683

|

|

|

|

1,002

|

|

|

|

1,269

|

|

|

|

1,407

|

|

|

|

1,504

|

|

|

|

1,557

|

|

|

|

1,600

|

|

|

|

1,617

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2015

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

329

|

|

|

|

804

|

|

|

|

1,187

|

|

|

|

1,507

|

|

|

|

1,766

|

|

|

|

1,873

|

|

|

|

1,966

|

|

|

|

2,041

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2016

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

373

|

|

|

|

908

|

|

|

|

1,359

|

|

|

|

1,765

|

|

|

|

1,998

|

|

|

|

2,140

|

|

|

|

2,303

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2017

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

480

|

|

|

|

1,133

|

|

|

|

1,645

|

|

|

|

2,050

|

|

|

|

2,279

|

|

|

|

2,492

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2018

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

583

|

|

|

|

1,340

|

|

|

|

1,902

|

|

|

|

2,324

|

|

|

|

2,746

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2019

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

725

|

|

|

|

1,598

|

|

|

|

2,214

|

|

|

|

2,898

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

736

|

|

|

|

1,498

|

|

|

|

2,066

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

869

|

|

|

|

1,751

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

962

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Paid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

|

20,085

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE for 2013 - 2022 accident years

|

|

|

|

17,942

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE for accident years before 2013

|

|

|

|

549

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

18,491

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
* Unaudited required supplemental information

BHRG

We use a variety of methodologies to establish BHRG's estimates for property
and casualty claims liabilities. These methodologies include paid and incurred
loss development techniques, incurred and paid loss Bornhuetter-Ferguson
techniques and frequency and severity techniques, as well as ground-up
techniques when appropriate.

Our claims liabilities are principally a function of reported losses from
ceding companies, case development and IBNR liability estimates. Case loss
estimates are reported under our contracts either individually or in bulk as
provided under the terms of the contracts. We may independently evaluate case
losses reported by the ceding company, and if deemed appropriate, we may
establish case liabilities based on our estimates.

K-96

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(16)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (Continued)

Estimated IBNR liabilities are affected by expected case loss emergence
patterns and expected loss ratios, which are evaluated as groups of contracts
with similar exposures or on a contract-by-contract basis. Estimated case and
IBNR liabilities for major catastrophe events are generally based on a per-
contract assessment of the ultimate cost associated with the individual loss
event. Claim count data is not provided consistently by ceding companies under
our contracts or is otherwise considered unreliable.

Net incurred and paid losses and ALAE of BHRG are disaggregated based on
losses that are expected to have shorter claim-tails (property) and losses
expected to have longer claim-tails (casualty). Under certain contracts, the
coverage can apply to multiple lines of business written by the ceding
company, whether property, casualty or combined, and the ceding company may
not report loss data by such lines consistently, if at all. In those
instances, we allocated losses to property and casualty coverages based on
internal estimates. BHRG's disaggregated incurred and paid losses and ALAE are
summarized by accident year. IBNR and case development liabilities are as of
December 31, 2022. As previously noted, Alleghany was acquired on October 19,
2022. Alleghany's incurred and paid losses and ALAE are included for all years
presented retrospectively in the tables that follow. Dollars are in millions.

Property

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Incurred Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

2013*

|

|

|

2014*

|

|

|

2015*

|

|

|

2016*

|

|

|

2017*

|

|

|

2018*

|

|

|

2019*

|

|

|

2020*

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

IBNR and Case  
Development  
Liabilities

|  
  
2013

|

|

$

|

3,654

|

|

|

$

|

3,460

|

|

|

$

|

3,092

|

|

|

$

|

2,980

|

|

|

$

|

2,946

|

|

|

$

|

2,885

|

|

|

$

|

2,828

|

|

|

$

|

2,811

|

|

|

$

|

2,808

|

|

|

$

|

2,796

|

|

|

$

|

31

|  
  
2014

|

|

|

|

|

|

3,088

|

|

|

|

2,847

|

|

|

|

2,724

|

|

|

|

2,566

|

|

|

|

2,509

|

|

|

|

2,433

|

|

|

|

2,399

|

|

|

|

2,393

|

|

|

|

2,373

|

|

|

|

31

|  
  
2015

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

3,595

|

|

|

|

3,405

|

|

|

|

2,838

|

|

|

|

3,229

|

|

|

|

3,225

|

|

|

|

3,244

|

|

|

|

3,246

|

|

|

|

3,240

|

|

|

|

116

|  
  
2016

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

3,917

|

|

|

|

4,508

|

|

|

|

4,186

|

|

|

|

4,149

|

|

|

|

4,144

|

|

|

|

4,133

|

|

|

|

4,111

|

|

|

|

47

|  
  
2017

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

6,390

|

|

|

|

6,093

|

|

|

|

5,916

|

|

|

|

5,790

|

|

|

|

5,711

|

|

|

|

5,630

|

|

|

|

100

|  
  
2018

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

5,478

|

|

|

|

5,574

|

|

|

|

5,433

|

|

|

|

5,289

|

|

|

|

5,296

|

|

|

|

372

|  
  
2019

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

4,991

|

|

|

|

5,116

|

|

|

|

4,907

|

|

|

|

4,592

|

|

|

|

245

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

6,937

|

|

|

|

7,217

|

|

|

|

6,857

|

|

|

|

1,025

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

8,080

|

|

|

|

7,951

|

|

|

|

1,757

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

8,870

|

|

|

|

4,663

|  
  
Incurred losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

51,716

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Cumulative Paid Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

2013*

|

|

|

2014*

|

|

|

2015*

|

|

|

2016*

|

|

|

2017*

|

|

|

2018*

|

|

|

2019*

|

|

|

2020*

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

|  
  
2013

|

|

$

|

621

|

|

|

$

|

1,674

|

|

|

$

|

2,190

|

|

|

$

|

2,414

|

|

|

$

|

2,540

|

|

|

$

|

2,623

|

|

|

$

|

2,663

|

|

|

$

|

2,694

|

|

|

$

|

2,718

|

|

|

$

|

2,710

|

|

|

|  
  
2014

|

|

|

|

|

|

571

|

|

|

|

1,518

|

|

|

|

1,899

|

|

|

|

2,059

|

|

|

|

2,135

|

|

|

|

2,187

|

|

|

|

2,218

|

|

|

|

2,242

|

|

|

|

2,272

|

|

|

|  
  
2015

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

669

|

|

|

|

1,799

|

|

|

|

2,204

|

|

|

|

2,422

|

|

|

|

2,531

|

|

|

|

2,713

|

|

|

|

2,799

|

|

|

|

2,852

|

|

|

|  
  
2016

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

914

|

|

|

|

2,211

|

|

|

|

2,673

|

|

|

|

3,162

|

|

|

|

3,431

|

|

|

|

3,626

|

|

|

|

3,736

|

|

|

|  
  
2017

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,347

|

|

|

|

3,508

|

|

|

|

4,583

|

|

|

|

4,936

|

|

|

|

5,171

|

|

|

|

5,364

|

|

|

|  
  
2018

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,208

|

|

|

|

3,089

|

|

|

|

3,733

|

|

|

|

4,019

|

|

|

|

4,265

|

|

|

|  
  
2019

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,010

|

|

|

|

2,852

|

|

|

|

3,578

|

|

|

|

3,905

|

|

|

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,253

|

|

|

|

3,583

|

|

|

|

4,632

|

|

|

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,622

|

|

|

|

4,083

|

|

|

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,815

|

|

|

|  
  
Paid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

|

35,634

|

|

|

|  
  
Net unpaid losses and ALAE for 2013 - 2022 accident years

|

|

|

|

16,082

|

|

|

|  
  
Net unpaid losses and ALAE for accident years before 2013

|

|

|

|

470

|

|

|

|  
  
Net unpaid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

16,552

|

|

|

|  
  
* Unaudited required supplemental information

K-97

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(16)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (Continued)

Casualty

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Incurred Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

2013*

|

|

|

2014*

|

|

|

2015*

|

|

|

2016*

|

|

|

2017*

|

|

|

2018*

|

|

|

2019*

|

|

|

2020*

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

IBNR and Case  
Development  
Liabilities

|  
  
2013

|

|

$

|

3,752

|

|

|

$

|

3,897

|

|

|

$

|

3,894

|

|

|

$

|

3,703

|

|

|

$

|

3,634

|

|

|

$

|

3,571

|

|

|

$

|

3,453

|

|

|

$

|

3,345

|

|

|

$

|

3,301

|

|

|

$

|

3,235

|

|

|

$

|

337

|  
  
2014

|

|

|

|

|

|

3,492

|

|

|

|

3,653

|

|

|

|

3,596

|

|

|

|

3,535

|

|

|

|

3,436

|

|

|

|

3,451

|

|

|

|

3,427

|

|

|

|

3,315

|

|

|

|

3,280

|

|

|

|

480

|  
  
2015

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

3,408

|

|

|

|

3,607

|

|

|

|

3,647

|

|

|

|

3,561

|

|

|

|

3,420

|

|

|

|

3,383

|

|

|

|

3,346

|

|

|

|

3,291

|

|

|

|

426

|  
  
2016

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

3,775

|

|

|

|

3,980

|

|

|

|

3,884

|

|

|

|

3,854

|

|

|

|

3,803

|

|

|

|

3,760

|

|

|

|

3,731

|

|

|

|

491

|  
  
2017

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

4,026

|

|

|

|

4,453

|

|

|

|

4,332

|

|

|

|

4,226

|

|

|

|

4,158

|

|

|

|

4,147

|

|

|

|

639

|  
  
2018

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

4,871

|

|

|

|

5,515

|

|

|

|

5,457

|

|

|

|

5,328

|

|

|

|

5,257

|

|

|

|

942

|  
  
2019

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

5,555

|

|

|

|

6,019

|

|

|

|

5,890

|

|

|

|

5,727

|

|

|

|

1,548

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

6,216

|

|

|

|

6,228

|

|

|

|

6,045

|

|

|

|

2,294

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

6,287

|

|

|

|

6,256

|

|

|

|

3,139

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

6,063

|

|

|

|

4,726

|  
  
|

|

Incurred losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

47,032

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Cumulative Paid Losses and ALAE through December 31,

|

|

|

|  
  
Accident  
Year

|

|

2013*

|

|

|

2014*

|

|

|

2015*

|

|

|

2016*

|

|

|

2017*

|

|

|

2018*

|

|

|

2019*

|

|

|

2020*

|

|

|

2021*

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

|  
  
2013

|

|

$

|

576

|

|

|

$

|

1,120

|

|

|

$

|

1,585

|

|

|

$

|

1,881

|

|

|

$

|

2,088

|

|

|

$

|

2,284

|

|

|

$

|

2,396

|

|

|

$

|

2,492

|

|

|

$

|

2,563

|

|

|

$

|

2,598

|

|

|

|  
  
2014

|

|

|

|

|

|

428

|

|

|

|

997

|

|

|

|

1,385

|

|

|

|

1,657

|

|

|

|

1,911

|

|

|

|

2,096

|

|

|

|

2,303

|

|

|

|

2,396

|

|

|

|

2,484

|

|

|

|  
  
2015

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

445

|

|

|

|

991

|

|

|

|

1,426

|

|

|

|

1,725

|

|

|

|

1,997

|

|

|

|

2,190

|

|

|

|

2,338

|

|

|

|

2,473

|

|

|

|  
  
2016

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

653

|

|

|

|

1,356

|

|

|

|

1,796

|

|

|

|

2,144

|

|

|

|

2,414

|

|

|

|

2,607

|

|

|

|

2,782

|

|

|

|  
  
2017

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

606

|

|

|

|

1,307

|

|

|

|

1,824

|

|

|

|

2,472

|

|

|

|

2,720

|

|

|

|

2,937

|

|

|

|  
  
2018

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

693

|

|

|

|

1,736

|

|

|

|

2,785

|

|

|

|

3,251

|

|

|

|

3,629

|

|

|

|  
  
2019

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

840

|

|

|

|

1,865

|

|

|

|

2,415

|

|

|

|

3,182

|

|

|

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

867

|

|

|

|

1,901

|

|

|

|

2,710

|

|

|

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

765

|

|

|

|

1,780

|

|

|

|  
  
2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

621

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Paid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

|

25,196

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE for 2013 - 2022 accident years

|

|

|

|

21,836

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE for accident years before 2013

|

|

|

|

9,530

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net unpaid losses and ALAE

|

|

|

$

|

31,366

|

|

|

|  
  
* Unaudited required supplemental information

Required supplemental unaudited average historical claims duration information
based on the net losses and ALAE incurred and paid accident year data in the
preceding tables follows. The percentages show the average portions of net
losses and ALAE paid by each succeeding year, with year 1 representing the
current accident year.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Average Annual Percentage Payout of Incurred Losses by Age, Net of Reinsurance  
  
In Year

|

1

|

|

2

|

|

3

|

|

4

|

|

5

|

|

6

|

|

7

|

|

8

|

|

9

|

|

10  
  
GEICO Physical Damage

|

97%

|

|

3%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
GEICO Auto Liability

|

41%

|

|

31%

|

|

13%

|

|

8%

|

|

4%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
BH Primary Medical Professional Liability

|

2%

|

|

7%

|

|

12%

|

|

14%

|

|

13%

|

|

11%

|

|

8%

|

|

6%

|

|

4%

|

|

3%  
  
BH Primary Workers' Compensation and Other Casualty

|

15%

|

|

19%

|

|

15%

|

|

13%

|

|

9%

|

|

5%

|

|

4%

|

|

3%

|

|

1%

|

|

1%  
  
BHRG Property

|

22%

|

|

36%

|

|

15%

|

|

8%

|

|

4%

|

|

4%

|

|

2%

|

|

1%

|

|

1%

|

|

0%  
  
BHRG Casualty

|

14%

|

|

18%

|

|

13%

|

|

11%

|

|

7%

|

|

6%

|

|

5%

|

|

3%

|

|

2%

|

|

1%  
  
K-98

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(17)

Retroactive reinsurance contracts

Retroactive reinsurance policies provide indemnification of losses and loss
adjustment expenses of short-duration insurance contracts with respect to
underlying loss events that occurred prior to the contract inception date.
Claims payments may commence immediately after the contract date or, when
applicable, after a contractual retention amount has been reached.
Reconciliations of the changes in estimated liabilities for retroactive
reinsurance unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses ("claim liabilities")
and reconciliations of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses to the
amounts recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the
three years ended December 31, 2022 follow (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Balances at beginning of year

|

$

|

37,855

|

|

|

$

|

40,623

|

|

|

$

|

41,927

|  
  
Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Current year contracts

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

153

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Prior years' contracts

|

|

86

|

|

|

|

(974

|

)

|

|

|

(399

|

)  
  
Total

|

|

86

|

|

|

|

(821

|

)

|

|

|

(399

|

)  
  
Paid losses and loss adjustment expenses

|

|

(2,358

|

)

|

|

|

(1,889

|

)

|

|

|

(1,076

|

)  
  
Foreign currency effect

|

|

(168

|

)

|

|

|

(58

|

)

|

|

|

171

|  
  
Balances at December 31

|

$

|

35,415

|

|

|

$

|

37,855

|

|

|

$

|

40,623

|  
  
Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses above

|

$

|

86

|

|

|

$

|

(821

|

)

|

|

$

|

(399

|

)  
  
Deferred charge amortization and adjustments

|

|

769

|

|

|

|

1,802

|

|

|

|

1,306

|  
  
Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses included in the Consolidated  
Statements of Earnings

|

$

|

855

|

|

|

$

|

981

|

|

|

$

|

907

|  
  
In the preceding table, classifications of incurred losses and loss adjustment
expenses are based on the inception dates of the contracts, which reflect when
our exposures to losses began. We believe that analysis of losses incurred and
paid by accident year of the underlying event is irrelevant given that our
exposure to losses incepts when the contract incepts and that the
classification of reported claims and case development liabilities has little
or no practical analytical value. Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses
in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings include changes in estimated
liabilities and related deferred charge asset amortization and adjustments
arising from the changes in estimated timing and amount of future loss
payments. Unamortized deferred charges related to retroactive reinsurance
contracts were $9.9 billion at December 31, 2022 and $10.6 billion at December
31, 2021.

Paid losses and loss adjustment expenses include claim payments attributable
to a contract between our subsidiary, National Indemnity Company, and certain
subsidiaries of American International Group, Inc. (collectively, "AIG").
Claim payments under the AIG contract commenced in 2021 and were $1.5 billion
in 2022 and $1.2 billion in 2021. Our estimated unpaid claim liabilities with
regard to the AIG contract were approximately $13.9 billion at December 31,
2022 and $15.8 billion at December 31, 2021.

In establishing retroactive reinsurance claim liabilities, we analyze
historical aggregate loss payment patterns and project losses into the future
under various probability-weighted scenarios. We expect the claim-tail to be
very long for many contracts, with some lasting several decades. We monitor
claim payment activity and review ceding company reports and other information
concerning the underlying losses. We reassess and revise the expected timing
and amounts of ultimate losses periodically or when significant events are
revealed through our monitoring and review processes.

Estimated claim liabilities for retroactive reinsurance included estimates for
environmental, asbestos and other latent injury exposures of approximately
$12.1 billion at December 31, 2022 and $12.3 billion at December 31, 2021.
Retroactive reinsurance contracts are generally subject to aggregate policy
limits and thus, our exposure to such claims under these contracts is likewise
limited. We monitor evolving case law and its effect on environmental and
other latent injury claims. Changing laws or government regulations, newly
identified toxins, newly reported claims, new theories of liability, new
contract interpretations and other factors could result in increases in these
liabilities, which could be material to our results of operations. We are
unable to reliably estimate the amount of additional net loss or the range of
net loss that is reasonably possible.

K-99

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(18)

Notes payable and other borrowings

The carrying value of notes payable and other borrowings is summarized below
(in millions). The weighted average interest rates and maturity date ranges
shown in the following tables are based on borrowings as of December 31, 2022.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Weighted Average

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

Interest Rate

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Insurance and other:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ("Berkshire"):

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
U.S. Dollar denominated due 2023-2047

|

|

|

3.2

|

%

|

|

$

|

6,231

|

|

|

$

|

6,820

|  
  
Euro denominated due 2023-2041

|

|

|

1.0

|

%

|

|

|

7,344

|

|

|

|

7,792

|  
  
Japanese Yen denominated due 2023-2060

|

|

|

0.7

|

%

|

|

|

7,818

|

|

|

|

6,797

|  
  
Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation ("BHFC"):

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
U.S. Dollar denominated due 2027-2052

|

|

|

3.6

|

%

|

|

|

14,458

|

|

|

|

10,758

|  
  
Great Britain Pound denominated due 2039-2059

|

|

|

2.5

|

%

|

|

|

2,078

|

|

|

|

2,325

|  
  
Euro denominated due 2030-2034

|

|

|

1.8

|

%

|

|

|

1,332

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Other subsidiary borrowings due 2023-2051

|

|

|

4.3

|

%

|

|

|

5,967

|

|

|

|

4,438

|  
  
Short-term subsidiary borrowings

|

|

|

5.8

|

%

|

|

|

1,310

|

|

|

|

342

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

$

|

46,538

|

|

|

$

|

39,272

|  
  
In January 2022, Berkshire issued ¥128.5 billion (approximately $1.1 billion)
of senior notes with maturity dates ranging from 2027 to 2052 and a weighted
average interest rate of 0.5%. In December 2022, Berkshire issued ¥115.0
billion (approximately $840 million) of senior notes with maturity dates
ranging from 2025 to 2052 and a weighted average interest rate of 1.1%. In the
first two months of 2023, Berkshire repaid $1.1 billion of maturing senior
notes. An additional $3.2 billion of Berkshire senior notes mature in March
and April of 2023.

Borrowings of BHFC, a wholly owned finance subsidiary of Berkshire, consist of
senior unsecured notes used to fund manufactured housing loans originated or
acquired and equipment held for lease of certain subsidiaries. BHFC borrowings
are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Berkshire. In March 2022, BHFC
issued $4.5 billion of senior notes with maturity dates ranging from 2027 to
2052 with a weighted average interest rate of 3.4% and €1.25 billion
(approximately $1.4 billion) of senior notes maturing in 2030 and 2034 with a
weighted average interest rate of 1.8%. Berkshire also guarantees certain debt
of other subsidiaries, aggregating approximately $3.7 billion at December 31,
2022, of which $1.0 billion matured in January 2023. Generally, Berkshire's
guarantee of a subsidiary's debt obligation is an absolute, unconditional and
irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt payment when due of all payment
obligations. Other subsidiary and short-term subsidiary borrowings as of
December 31, 2022 includes approximately $2.3 billion attributable to
Alleghany Corporation and its subsidiaries.

The carrying values of Berkshire and BHFC non-U.S. Dollar denominated senior
notes (€8.15 billion, £1.75 billion and ¥1,029 billion par at December 31,
2022) reflect the applicable exchange rates as of each balance sheet date. The
effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates during the period are
recorded in earnings as a component of selling, general and administrative
expenses. Changes in the exchange rates resulted in pre-tax gains of $1.7
billion in 2022, $1.3 billion in 2021 and pre-tax losses of $1.0 billion in
2020.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Weighted Average

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

Interest Rate

|

|

|

2022

|

|

2021

|  
  
Railroad, utilities and energy:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company ("BHE") and subsidiaries:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
BHE senior unsecured debt due 2023-2053

|

|

4.3

|

%

|

|

$

|

13,996

|

|

$

|

13,003

|  
  
Subsidiary and other debt due 2023-2064

|

|

4.3

|

%

|

|

|

37,639

|

|

|

36,759

|  
  
Short-term borrowings

|

|

5.2

|

%

|

|

|

1,119

|

|

|

2,009

|  
  
Burlington Northern Santa Fe ("BNSF") and subsidiaries due 2023-2097

|

|

4.5

|

%

|

|

|

23,452

|

|

|

23,219

|  
  
|

|

|

|

$

|

76,206

|

|

$

|

74,990

|  
  
K-100

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(18)

Notes payable and other borrowings (Continued)

BHE subsidiary debt represents amounts issued pursuant to separate financing
agreements. Substantially all of the assets of certain BHE subsidiaries are,
or may be, pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise secure debt. These
borrowing arrangements generally contain various covenants, including
covenants which pertain to leverage ratios, interest coverage ratios and/or
debt service coverage ratios. In 2022, BHE issued $1.0 billion of 4.6% senior
notes due in 2053. During 2022, BHE subsidiaries issued approximately $3.0
billion of term debt with a weighted average interest rate of 5.2% as of
December 31 and maturity dates ranging from 2024 to 2053.

BNSF's borrowings are primarily senior unsecured debentures. In June 2022,
BNSF issued $1.0 billion of 4.45% debentures due in 2053. As of December 31,
2022, BNSF, BHE and their subsidiaries were in compliance with all applicable
debt covenants. Berkshire does not guarantee any debt, borrowings or lines of
credit of BNSF, BHE or their subsidiaries.

Our subsidiaries had unused lines of credit and commercial paper capacity to
support short-term borrowing programs and provide additional liquidity. Unused
lines of credit were approximately $11.1 billion at December 31, 2022, which
included approximately $9.1 billion related to BHE and its subsidiaries.

Debt principal repayments expected during each of the next five years are as
follows (in millions). Amounts in 2023 include short-term borrowings.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2023

|

|

|

2024

|

|

|

2025

|

|

|

2026

|

|

|

2027

|  
  
Insurance and other

|

|

$

|

7,080

|

|

|

$

|

1,975

|

|

|

$

|

3,122

|

|

|

$

|

3,454

|

|

|

$

|

2,870

|  
  
Railroad, utilities and energy

|

|

|

5,882

|

|

|

|

4,281

|

|

|

|

3,919

|

|

|

|

1,498

|

|

|

|

1,686

|  
  
|

|

$

|

12,962

|

|

|

$

|

6,256

|

|

|

$

|

7,041

|

|

|

$

|

4,952

|

|

|

$

|

4,556

|  
  
(19)

Income taxes

Liabilities for income taxes reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets are
as follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Currently payable (receivable)

|

|

$

|

511

|

|

|

$

|

(482

|

)  
  
Deferred

|

|

|

76,069

|

|

|

|

89,679

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

440

|

|

|

|

1,046

|  
  
|

|

$

|

77,020

|

|

|

$

|

90,243

|  
  
The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
portions of deferred income tax assets and liabilities are shown below (in
millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Deferred income tax liabilities:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investments - unrealized appreciation

|

|

$

|

41,150

|

|

|

$

|

55,437

|  
  
Deferred charges reinsurance assumed

|

|

|

2,073

|

|

|

|

2,234

|  
  
Property, plant and equipment and equipment held for lease

|

|

|

32,080

|

|

|

|

31,323

|  
  
Goodwill and other intangible assets

|

|

|

7,010

|

|

|

|

6,748

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

4,695

|

|

|

|

4,094

|  
  
|

|

|

87,008

|

|

|

|

99,836

|  
  
Deferred income tax assets:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

|

|

|

(1,290

|

)

|

|

|

(1,091

|

)  
  
Unearned premiums

|

|

|

(1,196

|

)

|

|

|

(990

|

)  
  
Accrued liabilities

|

|

|

(1,790

|

)

|

|

|

(1,868

|

)  
  
Regulatory liabilities

|

|

|

(1,323

|

)

|

|

|

(1,349

|

)  
  
Other

|

|

|

(5,340

|

)

|

|

|

(4,859

|

)  
  
|

|

|

(10,939

|

)

|

|

|

(10,157

|

)  
  
Net deferred income tax liability

|

|

$

|

76,069

|

|

|

$

|

89,679

|  
  
K-101

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(19)

Income taxes (Continued)

We have not established deferred income taxes on accumulated undistributed
earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries, which are expected to be reinvested
indefinitely. Repatriation of all accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries
would be impracticable to the extent that such earnings represent capital to
support ongoing business operations. Generally, no U.S. federal income taxes
will be imposed on future distributions of foreign earnings under current law.
However, distributions to the U.S. or other foreign jurisdictions could be
subject to withholding and other local taxes.

Income tax expense (benefit) reflected in our Consolidated Statements of
Earnings for each of the three years ending December 31, 2022 was as follows
(in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Federal

|

|

$

|

(10,360

|

)

|

|

$

|

20,345

|

|

|

$

|

10,596

|  
  
State

|

|

|

762

|

|

|

|

(527

|

)

|

|

|

1,086

|  
  
Foreign

|

|

|

1,080

|

|

|

|

1,061

|

|

|

|

758

|  
  
|

|

$

|

(8,518

|

)

|

|

$

|

20,879

|

|

|

$

|

12,440

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Current

|

|

$

|

4,815

|

|

|

$

|

5,326

|

|

|

$

|

5,052

|  
  
Deferred

|

|

|

(13,333

|

)

|

|

|

15,553

|

|

|

|

7,388

|  
  
|

|

$

|

(8,518

|

)

|

|

$

|

20,879

|

|

|

$

|

12,440

|  
  
Income tax expense (benefit) is reconciled to hypothetical amounts computed at
the U.S. federal statutory rate for each of the three years ending December
31, 2022 in the table below (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Earnings (loss) before income taxes

|

|

$

|

(30,576

|

)

|

|

$

|

111,686

|

|

|

$

|

55,693

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Hypothetical income tax expense (benefit) at the U.S. federal statutory rate

|

|

$

|

(6,421

|

)

|

|

$

|

23,454

|

|

|

$

|

11,696

|  
  
Dividends received deduction and tax-exempt interest

|

|

|

(512

|

)

|

|

|

(457

|

)

|

|

|

(448

|

)  
  
State income taxes, less U.S. federal income tax effect

|

|

|

602

|

|

|

|

(417

|

)

|

|

|

858

|  
  
U.S. income tax credits*

|

|

|

(2,187

|

)

|

|

|

(1,860

|

)

|

|

|

(1,519

|

)  
  
Goodwill impairments

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,977

|  
  
Other differences, net

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

159

|

|

|

|

(124

|

)  
  
|

|

$

|

(8,518

|

)

|

|

$

|

20,879

|

|

|

$

|

12,440

|  
  
Effective income tax rate

|

|

|

27.9

|

%

|

|

|

18.7

|

%

|

|

|

22.3

|

%  
  
* U.S. income tax credits derive primarily from production tax credits associated with wind-energy generation of BHE and tax credits arising from affordable housing investments.

We file income tax returns in the United States and in state, local and
foreign jurisdictions. We have settled income tax liabilities with the U.S.
federal taxing authority ("IRS") for tax years through 2011. The 2012 and 2013
tax years are under review by the IRS's Independent Office of Appeals, and the
IRS is currently auditing tax years 2014 through 2019. We are also under audit
or subject to audit with respect to income taxes in state and foreign
jurisdictions. It is reasonably possible that certain of these income tax
examinations will be settled in 2023. We currently do not believe that the
outcome of unresolved issues or claims will be material to our Consolidated
Financial Statements.

At December 31, 2022 and 2021, net unrecognized tax benefits were $440 million
and $1,046 million, respectively. Included in the balance at December 31,
2022, were $383 million of tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the
effective tax rate. The remaining balance in net unrecognized tax benefits
principally relates to tax positions where the ultimate recognition is highly
certain but there is uncertainty about the timing of recognition. Because of
the impact of deferred income tax accounting, these positions, when
recognized, would not affect the annual effective income tax rate. We do not
expect material increases to the estimated amount of unrecognized tax benefits
during 2023.

K-102

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(20)

Fair value measurements

Our financial assets and liabilities are summarized below as of December 31,
2022 and December 31, 2021, with fair values shown according to the fair value
hierarchy (in millions). The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents,
U.S. Treasury Bills, other receivables and accounts payable, accruals and
other liabilities are considered to be reasonable estimates of or otherwise
approximate the fair values.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Carrying  
Value

|

|

|

Fair Value

|

|

|

Quoted  
Prices  
(Level 1)

|

|

|

Significant  
Other  
Observable  
Inputs  
(Level 2)

|

|

|

Significant  
Unobservable  
Inputs  
(Level 3)

|  
  
December 31, 2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investments in fixed maturity securities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
U.S. Treasury, U.S. government corporations and  
agencies

|

|

$

|

9,802

|

|

|

$

|

9,802

|

|

|

$

|

9,733

|

|

|

$

|

69

|

|

|

$

|

--

|  
  
Foreign governments

|

|

|

10,327

|

|

|

|

10,327

|

|

|

|

9,854

|

|

|

|

473

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Corporate bonds

|

|

|

2,195

|

|

|

|

2,195

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,546

|

|

|

|

649

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

2,804

|

|

|

|

2,804

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

2,804

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Investments in equity securities

|

|

|

308,793

|

|

|

|

308,793

|

|

|

|

296,610

|

|

|

|

9

|

|

|

|

12,174

|  
  
Investments in Kraft Heinz & Occidental common stock

|

|

|

24,421

|

|

|

|

25,491

|

|

|

|

25,491

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Loans and finance receivables

|

|

|

23,208

|

|

|

|

23,428

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,513

|

|

|

|

21,915

|  
  
Derivative contract assets (1)

|

|

|

589

|

|

|

|

589

|

|

|

|

56

|

|

|

|

474

|

|

|

|

59

|  
  
Derivative contract liabilities (1)

|

|

|

242

|

|

|

|

242

|

|

|

|

8

|

|

|

|

122

|

|

|

|

112

|  
  
Notes payable and other borrowings:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance and other

|

|

|

46,538

|

|

|

|

41,961

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

41,061

|

|

|

|

900

|  
  
Railroad, utilities and energy

|

|

|

76,206

|

|

|

|

67,651

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

67,651

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
December 31, 2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investments in fixed maturity securities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
U.S. Treasury, U.S. government corporations and  
agencies

|

|

$

|

3,303

|

|

|

$

|

3,303

|

|

|

$

|

3,261

|

|

|

$

|

42

|

|

|

$

|

--

|  
  
Foreign governments

|

|

|

10,994

|

|

|

|

10,994

|

|

|

|

10,286

|

|

|

|

708

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Corporate bonds

|

|

|

1,774

|

|

|

|

1,774

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,774

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

363

|

|

|

|

363

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

363

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Investments in equity securities

|

|

|

350,719

|

|

|

|

350,719

|

|

|

|

339,225

|

|

|

|

8

|

|

|

|

11,486

|  
  
Investment in Kraft Heinz common stock

|

|

|

13,112

|

|

|

|

11,683

|

|

|

|

11,683

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Loans and finance receivables

|

|

|

20,751

|

|

|

|

22,174

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

2,178

|

|

|

|

19,996

|  
  
Derivative contract assets (1)

|

|

|

329

|

|

|

|

329

|

|

|

|

6

|

|

|

|

230

|

|

|

|

93

|  
  
Derivative contract liabilities (1)

|

|

|

376

|

|

|

|

376

|

|

|

|

2

|

|

|

|

150

|

|

|

|

224

|  
  
Notes payable and other borrowings:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance and other

|

|

|

39,272

|

|

|

|

42,339

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

42,292

|

|

|

|

47

|  
  
Railroad, utilities and energy

|

|

|

74,990

|

|

|

|

87,065

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

87,065

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
(1)

Assets are included in other assets, and liabilities are included in accounts
payable, accruals and other liabilities.

K-103

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(20) Fair value measurements (Continued)

The fair values of substantially all of our financial instruments were
measured using market or income approaches. The hierarchy for measuring fair
value consists of Levels 1 through 3, which are described below.

Level 1 - Inputs represent unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or
liabilities exchanged in active markets.

Level 2 - Inputs include directly or indirectly observable inputs (other than
Level 1 inputs) such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities
exchanged in active or inactive markets; quoted prices for identical assets or
liabilities exchanged in inactive markets; other inputs that may be considered
in fair value determinations of the assets or liabilities, such as interest
rates and yield curves, volatilities, prepayment speeds, loss severities,
credit risks and default rates; and inputs that are derived principally from
or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means.
Pricing evaluations generally reflect discounted expected future cash flows,
which incorporate yield curves for instruments with similar characteristics,
such as credit ratings, estimated durations and yields for other instruments
of the issuer or entities in the same industry sector.

Level 3 - Inputs include unobservable inputs used in the measurement of assets
and liabilities. Management is required to use its own assumptions regarding
unobservable inputs because there is little, if any, market activity in the
assets or liabilities and it may be unable to corroborate the related
observable inputs. Unobservable inputs require management to make certain
projections and assumptions about the information that would be used by market
participants in valuing assets or liabilities.

Reconciliations of significant assets and liabilities measured and carried at
fair value on a recurring basis with the use of significant unobservable
inputs (Level 3) for each of the three years ending December 31, 2022 follow
(in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Balance at  
beginning  
of year

|

|

|

Gains (losses) included in earnings

|

|

|

Acquisitions,  
dispositions  
and  
settlements

|

|

|

Transfers out of Level 3

|

|

|

Balance at December 31,

|  
  
Investments in equity securities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2022

|

|

$

|

11,480

|

|

|

$

|

689

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

12,169

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

8,978

|

|

|

|

1,902

|

|

|

|

1,100

|

|

|

|

(500

|

)

|

|

|

11,480

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

10,405

|

|

|

|

(1,426

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(1

|

)

|

|

|

8,978

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Equity index put option contract liabilities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

(1,065

|

)

|

|

|

966

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

99

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

(968

|

)

|

|

|

(159

|

)

|

|

|

62

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(1,065

|

)  
  
Quantitative information as of December 31, 2022 for the significant assets
measured and carried at fair value on a recurring basis with the use of
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Fair  
Value

|

|

|

Principal  
Valuation  
Techniques

|

|

Unobservable  
Inputs

|

|

Weighted  
Average  
  
Investments in equity securities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Preferred stock

|

|

$

|

9,964

|

|

|

Discounted cash flow

|

|

Expected duration

|

|

6 years  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Discount for transferability restrictions and subordination

|

|

372 bps  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Common stock warrants

|

|

|

2,205

|

|

|

Warrant pricing model

|

|

Expected duration

|

|

6 years  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Volatility

|

|

39%  
  
K-104

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(20) Fair value measurements (Continued)

Investments in equity securities in the preceding table include our
investments in certain preferred and common stock warrants that do not have
readily determinable market values as defined under GAAP. These investments
are subject to contractual restrictions on transferability and contain
provisions that currently prevent us from economically hedging our
investments. We applied discounted cash flow techniques in valuing the
preferred stock and we made assumptions regarding the expected duration of the
investment and the effects of subordination in liquidation. In valuing the
common stock warrants, we used a warrant valuation model. While most of the
inputs to the model are observable, we made assumptions regarding the expected
duration and volatility of the warrants.

(21)

Common stock

Changes in Berkshire's issued, treasury and outstanding common stock during
the three years ending December 31, 2022 are shown in the table below. In
addition to our common stock, 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock are
authorized, but none are issued.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Class A, $5 Par Value  
(1,650,000 shares authorized)

|

|

|

Class B, $0.0033 Par Value  
(3,225,000,000 shares authorized)

|  
  
|

|

Issued

|

|

|

Treasury

|

|

|

Outstanding

|

|

|

Issued

|

|

|

Treasury

|

|

|

Outstanding

|  
  
Balance December 31, 2019

|

|

|

719,307

|

|

|

|

(17,337

|

)

|

|

|

701,970

|

|

|

|

1,408,183,852

|

|

|

|

(23,702,319

|

)

|

|

|

1,384,481,533

|  
  
Conversions of Class A to  
Class B common stock

|

|

|

(40,784

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(40,784

|

)

|

|

|

61,176,000

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

61,176,000

|  
  
Treasury stock acquired

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(17,255

|

)

|

|

|

(17,255

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(95,614,062

|

)

|

|

|

(95,614,062

|

)  
  
Balance December 31, 2020

|

|

|

678,523

|

|

|

|

(34,592

|

)

|

|

|

643,931

|

|

|

|

1,469,359,852

|

|

|

|

(119,316,381

|

)

|

|

|

1,350,043,471

|  
  
Conversions of Class A to  
Class B common stock

|

|

|

(12,622

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(12,622

|

)

|

|

|

18,933,000

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

18,933,000

|  
  
Treasury stock acquired

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(14,196

|

)

|

|

|

(14,196

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(78,501,968

|

)

|

|

|

(78,501,968

|

)  
  
Balance December 31, 2021

|

|

|

665,901

|

|

|

|

(48,788

|

)

|

|

|

617,113

|

|

|

|

1,488,292,852

|

|

|

|

(197,818,349

|

)

|

|

|

1,290,474,503

|  
  
Conversions of Class A to  
Class B common stock

|

|

|

(14,451

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(14,451

|

)

|

|

|

21,676,500

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

21,676,500

|  
  
Treasury stock acquired

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(11,098

|

)

|

|

|

(11,098

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(9,896,927

|

)

|

|

|

(9,896,927

|

)  
  
Balance December 31, 2022

|

|

|

651,450

|

|

|

|

(59,886

|

)

|

|

|

591,564

|

|

|

|

1,509,969,352

|

|

|

|

(207,715,276

|

)

|

|

|

1,302,254,076

|  
  
Each Class A common share is entitled to one vote per share. Class B common
stock possesses dividend and distribution rights equal to one-fifteen-
hundredth (1/1,500) of such rights of Class A common stock. Each Class B
common share possesses voting rights equal to one-ten-thousandth (1/10,000) of
the voting rights of a Class A share. Unless otherwise required under Delaware
General Corporation Law, Class A and Class B common shares vote as a single
class. Each share of Class A common stock is convertible, at the option of the
holder, into 1,500 shares of Class B common stock. Class B common stock is not
convertible into Class A common stock. On an equivalent Class A common stock
basis, there were 1,459,733 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and
1,477,429 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2021.

Since we have two classes of common stock, we provide earnings per share data
on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for average equivalent Class A
shares outstanding and average equivalent Class B shares outstanding. Class B
shares are economically equivalent to one-fifteen-hundredth (1/1,500) of a
Class A share. Average equivalent Class A shares outstanding represents
average Class A shares outstanding plus one-fifteen-hundredth (1/1,500) of the
average Class B shares outstanding. Average equivalent Class B shares
outstanding represents average Class B shares outstanding plus 1,500 times
average Class A shares outstanding.

Berkshire's common stock repurchase program, as amended, permits Berkshire to
repurchase shares any time that Warren Buffett, Berkshire's Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Charlie Munger, Vice Chairman of the
Board, believe that the repurchase price is below Berkshire's intrinsic value,
conservatively determined. The program continues to allow share repurchases in
the open market or through privately negotiated transactions and does not
specify a maximum number of shares to be repurchased. However, repurchases
will not be made if they would reduce the total value of Berkshire's
consolidated cash, cash equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bill holdings below $30
billion. The repurchase program does not obligate Berkshire to repurchase any
specific dollar amount or number of Class A or Class B shares and there is no
expiration date to the program.

K-105

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(22)

Revenues from contracts with customers

We recognize revenue when a good or service is transferred to a customer. A
good or service is transferred when or as the customer obtains control of that
good or service. Revenues are based on the consideration we expect to receive
in connection with our promises to deliver goods and services to our
customers. The following tables summarize customer contract revenues
disaggregated by reportable segment and the source of the revenue for each of
the three years ended December 31, 2022 (in millions). Other revenues, which
are not considered to be revenues from contracts with customers under GAAP,
are primarily insurance premiums earned, interest, dividend and other
investment income and leasing revenues.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
2022

|

|

Manufacturing

|

|

|

McLane

|

|

|

Service and  
Retailing

|

|

|

BNSF

|

|

|

Berkshire  
Hathaway  
Energy

|

|

|

Insurance,  
Corporate  
and other

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
Manufactured products:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Industrial and commercial products

|

|

$

|

24,566

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

199

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

24,765

|  
  
Building products

|

|

|

22,762

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

22,762

|  
  
Consumer products

|

|

|

19,912

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

19,912

|  
  
Grocery and convenience store distribution

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

32,599

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

32,599

|  
  
Food and beverage distribution

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

19,388

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

19,388

|  
  
Auto sales

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

10,486

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

10,486

|  
  
Other retail and wholesale distribution

|

|

|

3,195

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

16,931

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

20,126

|  
  
Service

|

|

|

1,199

|

|

|

|

1,103

|

|

|

|

4,439

|

|

|

|

25,742

|

|

|

|

4,933

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

37,416

|  
  
Electricity and natural gas

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

20,317

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

20,317

|  
  
Total

|

|

|

71,634

|

|

|

|

53,090

|

|

|

|

32,055

|

|

|

|

25,742

|

|

|

|

25,250

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

207,771

|  
  
Other revenues

|

|

|

4,016

|

|

|

|

119

|

|

|

|

6,154

|

|

|

|

60

|

|

|

|

1,097

|

|

|

|

82,872

|

|

|

|

94,318

|  
  
|

|

$

|

75,650

|

|

|

$

|

53,209

|

|

|

$

|

38,209

|

|

|

$

|

25,802

|

|

|

$

|

26,347

|

|

|

$

|

82,872

|

|

|

$

|

302,089

|  
  
2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Manufactured products:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Industrial and commercial products

|

|

$

|

22,184

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

159

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

22,343

|  
  
Building products

|

|

|

19,604

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

19,604

|  
  
Consumer products

|

|

|

18,540

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

18,540

|  
  
Grocery and convenience store distribution

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

31,245

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

31,245

|  
  
Food and beverage distribution

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

17,332

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

17,332

|  
  
Auto sales

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

9,966

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

9,966

|  
  
Other retail and wholesale distribution

|

|

|

2,997

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

15,898

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

18,895

|  
  
Service

|

|

|

1,486

|

|

|

|

751

|

|

|

|

4,123

|

|

|

|

23,120

|

|

|

|

5,583

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

35,063

|  
  
Electricity and natural gas

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

18,264

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

18,264

|  
  
Total

|

|

|

64,811

|

|

|

|

49,328

|

|

|

|

30,146

|

|

|

|

23,120

|

|

|

|

23,847

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

191,252

|  
  
Other revenues

|

|

|

3,766

|

|

|

|

122

|

|

|

|

4,601

|

|

|

|

57

|

|

|

|

1,205

|

|

|

|

75,200

|

|

|

|

84,951

|  
  
|

|

$

|

68,577

|

|

|

$

|

49,450

|

|

|

$

|

34,747

|

|

|

$

|

23,177

|

|

|

$

|

25,052

|

|

|

$

|

75,200

|

|

|

$

|

276,203

|  
  
2020

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Manufactured products:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Industrial and commercial products

|

|

$

|

20,772

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

192

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

20,964

|  
  
Building products

|

|

|

15,943

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

15,943

|  
  
Consumer products

|

|

|

14,757

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

14,757

|  
  
Grocery and convenience store distribution

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

30,795

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

30,795

|  
  
Food and beverage distribution

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

15,368

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

15,368

|  
  
Auto sales

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

8,258

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

8,258

|  
  
Other retail and wholesale distribution

|

|

|

2,452

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

12,470

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

14,922

|  
  
Service

|

|

|

1,456

|

|

|

|

584

|

|

|

|

3,332

|

|

|

|

20,693

|

|

|

|

4,595

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

30,660

|  
  
Electricity and natural gas

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

15,066

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

15,066

|  
  
Total

|

|

|

55,380

|

|

|

|

46,747

|

|

|

|

24,252

|

|

|

|

20,693

|

|

|

|

19,661

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

166,733

|  
  
Other revenues

|

|

|

3,598

|

|

|

|

93

|

|

|

|

3,859

|

|

|

|

57

|

|

|

|

1,422

|

|

|

|

69,817

|

|

|

|

78,846

|  
  
|

|

$

|

58,978

|

|

|

$

|

46,840

|

|

|

$

|

28,111

|

|

|

$

|

20,750

|

|

|

$

|

21,083

|

|

|

$

|

69,817

|

|

|

$

|

245,579

|  
  
K-106

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(22)

Revenues from contracts with customers (Continued)

A summary of the transaction price allocated to the significant unsatisfied
remaining performance obligations relating to contracts with expected
durations in excess of one year as of December 31, 2022 and the timing of when
the performance obligations are expected to be satisfied follows (in
millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Less than  
12 months

|

|

|

Greater than  
12 months

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
Electricity and natural gas

|

|

$

|

3,514

|

|

|

$

|

20,619

|

|

|

$

|

24,133

|  
  
Other sales and service contracts

|

|

|

1,856

|

|

|

|

3,176

|

|

|

|

5,032

|  
  
(23)

Pension plans

Certain of our subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans. Benefits
under the plans are generally based on years of service and compensation or
fixed benefit rates. Plan sponsors may make contributions to the plans to meet
regulatory requirements and may also make discretionary contributions. The
components of our net periodic pension expense for each of the three years
ending December 31, 2022 follow (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Service cost

|

|

$

|

181

|

|

|

$

|

257

|

|

|

$

|

235

|  
  
Interest cost

|

|

|

482

|

|

|

|

410

|

|

|

|

510

|  
  
Expected return on plan assets

|

|

|

(975

|

)

|

|

|

(1,008

|

)

|

|

|

(955

|

)  
  
Amortization of actuarial losses and other

|

|

|

156

|

|

|

|

203

|

|

|

|

171

|  
  
Net periodic pension expense

|

|

$

|

(156

|

)

|

|

$

|

(138

|

)

|

|

$

|

(39

|

)  
  
The projected benefit obligation ("PBO") is the actuarial present value of
benefits earned based upon service and compensation prior to the valuation
date and, if applicable, includes assumptions regarding future compensation
levels. Benefit obligations under qualified U.S. defined benefit pension plans
are funded through assets held in trusts. Pension obligations under certain
non-U.S. plans and non-qualified U.S. plans are unfunded and the aggregate
PBOs of such plans were $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively. The cost of certain BHE pension plans are expected to
be recoverable through the regulated rate making process.

The funded status reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at year end 2022
and 2021 and reconciliations of the changes in PBOs and plan assets related to
BHE's pension plans and all other pension plans for each of the two years
ending December 31, 2022 follow (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
|

|

BHE

|

|

|

Other

|

|

|

Total

|

|

|

BHE

|

|

|

Other

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
Benefit obligations

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
PBO beginning of year

|

|

$

|

4,780

|

|

|

$

|

14,012

|

|

|

$

|

18,792

|

|

|

$

|

5,282

|

|

|

$

|

15,147

|

|

|

$

|

20,429

|  
  
Service cost

|

|

|

36

|

|

|

|

145

|

|

|

|

181

|

|

|

|

46

|

|

|

|

211

|

|

|

|

257

|  
  
Interest cost

|

|

|

118

|

|

|

|

364

|

|

|

|

482

|

|

|

|

109

|

|

|

|

301

|

|

|

|

410

|  
  
Benefits paid

|

|

|

(250

|

)

|

|

|

(585

|

)

|

|

|

(835

|

)

|

|

|

(214

|

)

|

|

|

(795

|

)

|

|

|

(1,009

|

)  
  
Settlements paid

|

|

|

(164

|

)

|

|

|

(678

|

)

|

|

|

(842

|

)

|

|

|

(185

|

)

|

|

|

(22

|

)

|

|

|

(207

|

)  
  
Business acquisition

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

58

|

|

|

|

58

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Actuarial gains and other

|

|

|

(1,305

|

)

|

|

|

(3,793

|

)

|

|

|

(5,098

|

)

|

|

|

(258

|

)

|

|

|

(830

|

)

|

|

|

(1,088

|

)  
  
PBO end of year

|

|

$

|

3,215

|

|

|

$

|

9,523

|

|

|

$

|

12,738

|

|

|

$

|

4,780

|

|

|

$

|

14,012

|

|

|

$

|

18,792

|  
  
Plan assets

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Plan assets beginning of year

|

|

$

|

5,158

|

|

|

$

|

13,462

|

|

|

$

|

18,620

|

|

|

$

|

5,158

|

|

|

$

|

12,780

|

|

|

$

|

17,938

|  
  
Employer contributions

|

|

|

29

|

|

|

|

133

|

|

|

|

162

|

|

|

|

41

|

|

|

|

124

|

|

|

|

165

|  
  
Benefits paid

|

|

|

(250

|

)

|

|

|

(585

|

)

|

|

|

(835

|

)

|

|

|

(214

|

)

|

|

|

(795

|

)

|

|

|

(1,009

|

)  
  
Settlements paid

|

|

|

(164

|

)

|

|

|

(678

|

)

|

|

|

(842

|

)

|

|

|

(185

|

)

|

|

|

(22

|

)

|

|

|

(207

|

)  
  
Business acquisition

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

51

|

|

|

|

51

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Actual return on plan assets

|

|

|

(1,162

|

)

|

|

|

(2,971

|

)

|

|

|

(4,133

|

)

|

|

|

382

|

|

|

|

1,401

|

|

|

|

1,783

|  
  
Foreign currency translation and other

|

|

|

(235

|

)

|

|

|

(196

|

)

|

|

|

(431

|

)

|

|

|

(24

|

)

|

|

|

(26

|

)

|

|

|

(50

|

)  
  
Plan assets end of year

|

|

$

|

3,376

|

|

|

$

|

9,216

|

|

|

$

|

12,592

|

|

|

$

|

5,158

|

|

|

$

|

13,462

|

|

|

$

|

18,620

|  
  
Funded status - net (asset) liability

|

|

$

|

(161

|

)

|

|

$

|

307

|

|

|

$

|

146

|

|

|

$

|

(378

|

)

|

|

$

|

550

|

|

|

$

|

172

|  
  
K-107

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(23)

Pension plans (Continued)

The funded status reflected in assets was $1,510 million and in liabilities
was $1,656 million at December 31, 2022. The funded status included in assets
was $1,954 million and in liabilities was $2,126 million at December 31, 2021.

The accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO") is the actuarial present value of
benefits earned based on service and compensation prior to the valuation date.
The ABO was $12.2 billion at December 31, 2022 and $17.9 billion at December
31, 2021. Information for plans with PBOs and ABOs in excess of plan assets as
of December 31, 2022 and 2021 follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

2022

|

|

2021

|  
  
PBOs

|

$

|

6,422

|

|

$

|

9,643

|  
  
Plan assets

|

|

4,766

|

|

|

7,518

|  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
ABOs

|

|

5,594

|

|

|

9,111

|  
  
Plan assets

|

|

4,234

|

|

|

7,429

|  
  
Weighted average assumptions used in determining PBOs and net periodic pension
expense follow.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Discount rate applicable to PBOs

|

|

|

5.2

|

%

|

|

|

2.7

|

%

|

|

|

2.3

|

%  
  
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets

|

|

5.9

|

|

|

6.1

|

|

|

6.2

|  
  
Rate of compensation increase

|

|

2.5

|

|

|

2.6

|

|

|

2.6

|  
  
Discount rate applicable to net periodic pension expense

|

|

|

2.9

|

|

|

|

2.4

|

|

|

|

3.1

|  
  
Pension benefit payments expected over the next ten years are as follows (in
millions): in 2023 - $1,259; in 2024 - $902; in 2025 - $896; in 2026 - $894;
in 2027 - $900; and in 2028 to 2032 - $4,438. Sponsoring subsidiaries expect
to contribute $176 million to the plans in 2023.

Fair value measurements of plan assets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 follow
(in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Fair Value

|

|

|

Investments  
carried at net

|  
  
|

|

Total

|

|

|

Level 1

|

|

|

Level 2

|

|

|

Level 3

|

|

|

asset value

|  
  
December 31, 2022

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents

|

|

$

|

602

|

|

|

$

|

523

|

|

|

$

|

79

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|  
  
Equity securities

|

|

|

7,673

|

|

|

|

7,112

|

|

|

|

321

|

|

|

|

240

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Fixed maturity securities

|

|

|

2,152

|

|

|

|

1,328

|

|

|

|

824

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Investment funds and other

|

|

|

2,165

|

|

|

|

198

|

|

|

|

394

|

|

|

|

42

|

|

|

|

1,531

|  
  
|

|

$

|

12,592

|

|

|

$

|

9,161

|

|

|

$

|

1,618

|

|

|

$

|

282

|

|

|

$

|

1,531

|  
  
December 31, 2021

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents

|

|

$

|

992

|

|

|

$

|

901

|

|

|

$

|

91

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|  
  
Equity securities

|

|

|

11,343

|

|

|

|

10,358

|

|

|

|

660

|

|

|

|

325

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Fixed maturity securities

|

|

|

3,422

|

|

|

|

2,226

|

|

|

|

1,168

|

|

|

|

28

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Investment funds and other

|

|

|

2,863

|

|

|

|

180

|

|

|

|

361

|

|

|

|

57

|

|

|

|

2,265

|  
  
|

|

$

|

18,620

|

|

|

$

|

13,665

|

|

|

$

|

2,280

|

|

|

$

|

410

|

|

|

$

|

2,265

|  
  
See Note 20 for a discussion of the three levels of fair value measurements.
Plan assets are generally invested with the long-term objective of producing
earnings to adequately cover expected benefit obligations, while assuming a
prudent level of risk. Allocations may change due to changing market
conditions and investment opportunities. The expected rates of return on plan
assets reflect subjective assessments of expected long-term investment
returns. Generally, past investment returns are not given significant
consideration when establishing assumptions for expected long-term rates of
return on plan assets. Actual experience will differ from the assumed rates of
return.

K-108

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(23)

Pension plans (Continued)

A reconciliation of the pre-tax accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
related to defined benefit pension plans for each of the two years ending
December 31, 2022 follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Balance beginning of year

|

|

$

|

(485

|

)

|

|

$

|

(2,251

|

)  
  
Amount included in net periodic pension expense

|

|

|

123

|

|

|

|

170

|  
  
Actuarial gains (losses) and other

|

|

|

(376

|

)

|

|

|

1,596

|  
  
Balance end of year

|

|

$

|

(738

|

)

|

|

$

|

(485

|

)  
  
Several of our subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution retirement
plans, such as 401(k) or profit-sharing plans. Employee contributions are
subject to regulatory limitations and the specific plan provisions. Several
plans provide for employer matching contributions up to levels specified in
the plans and provide for additional discretionary contributions as determined
by management. Our defined contribution plan expense was approximately $0.8
billion in 2022, $1.0 billion in 2021 and $1.4 billion in 2020.

(24)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

A summary of the net changes in after-tax accumulated other comprehensive
income attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders for each of the three
years ending December 31, 2022 follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Unrealized  
gains (losses)  
on investments

|

|

|

Foreign  
currency  
translation

|

|

|

Defined benefit  
pension plans

|

|

|

Other

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
Balance December 31, 2019

|

|

$

|

481

|

|

|

$

|

(4,346

|

)

|

|

$

|

(1,369

|

)

|

|

$

|

(9

|

)

|

|

$

|

(5,243

|

)  
  
Other comprehensive income

|

|

|

78

|

|

|

|

1,264

|

|

|

|

(385

|

)

|

|

|

(52

|

)

|

|

|

905

|  
  
Reclassifications into net earnings

|

|

|

(23

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

109

|

|

|

|

9

|

|

|

|

95

|  
  
Balance December 31, 2020

|

|

|

536

|

|

|

|

(3,082

|

)

|

|

|

(1,645

|

)

|

|

|

(52

|

)

|

|

|

(4,243

|

)  
  
Other comprehensive income

|

|

|

(123

|

)

|

|

|

(1,021

|

)

|

|

|

1,163

|

|

|

|

80

|

|

|

|

99

|  
  
Reclassifications into net earnings

|

|

|

(44

|

)

|

|

|

11

|

|

|

|

135

|

|

|

|

15

|

|

|

|

117

|  
  
Balance December 31, 2021

|

|

|

369

|

|

|

|

(4,092

|

)

|

|

|

(347

|

)

|

|

|

43

|

|

|

|

(4,027

|

)  
  
Other comprehensive income

|

|

|

(991

|

)

|

|

|

(2,045

|

)

|

|

|

(298

|

)

|

|

|

283

|

|

|

|

(3,051

|

)  
  
Reclassifications into net earnings

|

|

|

435

|

|

|

|

(3

|

)

|

|

|

93

|

|

|

|

(38

|

)

|

|

|

487

|  
  
Balance December 31, 2022

|

|

$

|

(187

|

)

|

|

$

|

(6,140

|

)

|

|

$

|

(552

|

)

|

|

$

|

288

|

|

|

$

|

(6,591

|

)  
  
K-109

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(25)

Business segment data

Our operating businesses include a large and diverse group of insurance,
manufacturing, service and retailing businesses. We organize our reportable
business segments in a manner that reflects how management views those
business activities. Certain businesses are grouped together for segment
reporting based upon similar products or product lines, marketing, selling and
distribution characteristics, even though those business units are operated
under separate local management.

The tabular information that follows shows data of reportable segments
reconciled to amounts reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Intersegment transactions are not eliminated from segment results when
management considers those transactions in assessing the results of the
respective segments. Furthermore, our management does not consider investment
and derivative gains/losses, impairments or amortization of certain business
acquisition accounting adjustments related to Berkshire's business
acquisitions or certain other corporate income and expense items in assessing
the financial performance of operating units. Collectively, these items are
included in reconciliations of segment amounts to consolidated amounts.

Berkshire's operating segments are as follows.

|  |  
---|---|---  
  
Business Identity

|

|

Business Activity  
  
Insurance:

|

|  
  
GEICO

|

|

Underwriting private passenger automobile insurance mainly by direct response
methods  
  
|

|  
  
Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

|

|

Underwriting multiple lines of property and casualty insurance policies for
primarily commercial accounts  
  
|

|  
  
Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

|

|

Underwriting excess-of-loss, quota-share and facultative reinsurance worldwide  
  
|

|  
  
Railroad ("BNSF")

|

|

Operation of one of the largest railroad systems in North America through
Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC  
  
|

|  
  
Utilities and energy ("BHE")

|

|

Regulated electric and gas utility, including power generation and
distribution activities and real estate brokerage activities through Berkshire
Hathaway Energy Company and affiliates  
  
|

|  
  
Manufacturing

|

|

Manufacturers of numerous products including industrial, consumer and building
products, including home building and related financial services  
  
|

|  
  
McLane Company ("McLane")

|

|

Wholesale distribution of groceries and non-food items  
  
|

|  
  
Service and retailing

|

|

Providers of numerous services including shared aircraft ownership programs,
aviation pilot training, electronic components distribution, various retailing
businesses, including automobile dealerships and trailer and furniture leasing  
  
K-110

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(25)

Business segment data (Continued)

A disaggregation of our consolidated data for each of the three most recent
years is presented as follows (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Revenues

|

|

|

Earnings (loss) before income taxes

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Operating Businesses

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Underwriting:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
GEICO

|

|

$

|

38,984

|

|

|

$

|

37,706

|

|

|

$

|

35,093

|

|

|

$

|

(1,880

|

)

|

|

$

|

1,259

|

|

|

$

|

3,428

|  
  
Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

|

|

|

13,746

|

|

|

|

11,575

|

|

|

|

9,615

|

|

|

|

393

|

|

|

|

607

|

|

|

|

110

|  
  
Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

|

|

|

21,915

|

|

|

|

20,197

|

|

|

|

18,693

|

|

|

|

1,389

|

|

|

|

(930

|

)

|

|

|

(2,700

|

)  
  
Insurance underwriting

|

|

|

74,645

|

|

|

|

69,478

|

|

|

|

63,401

|

|

|

|

(98

|

)

|

|

|

936

|

|

|

|

838

|  
  
Investment income

|

|

|

7,734

|

|

|

|

5,662

|

|

|

|

5,960

|

|

|

|

7,724

|

|

|

|

5,649

|

|

|

|

5,949

|  
  
Total insurance

|

|

|

82,379

|

|

|

|

75,140

|

|

|

|

69,361

|

|

|

|

7,626

|

|

|

|

6,585

|

|

|

|

6,787

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
BNSF

|

|

|

25,888

|

|

|

|

23,282

|

|

|

|

20,869

|

|

|

|

7,708

|

|

|

|

7,861

|

|

|

|

6,792

|  
  
BHE

|

|

|

26,393

|

|

|

|

25,096

|

|

|

|

21,100

|

|

|

|

3,146

|

|

|

|

3,293

|

|

|

|

2,548

|  
  
Manufacturing

|

|

|

75,781

|

|

|

|

68,730

|

|

|

|

59,079

|

|

|

|

11,177

|

|

|

|

9,841

|

|

|

|

8,010

|  
  
McLane

|

|

|

53,209

|

|

|

|

49,450

|

|

|

|

46,840

|

|

|

|

271

|

|

|

|

230

|

|

|

|

251

|  
  
Service and retailing

|

|

|

38,303

|

|

|

|

34,832

|

|

|

|

28,178

|

|

|

|

4,771

|

|

|

|

4,481

|

|

|

|

2,628

|  
  
|

|

|

301,953

|

|

|

|

276,530

|

|

|

|

245,427

|

|

|

|

34,699

|

|

|

|

32,291

|

|

|

|

27,016

|  
  
Reconciliation to consolidated amount

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investment and derivative gains (losses)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(67,899

|

)

|

|

|

78,542

|

|

|

|

40,746

|  
  
Interest expense, not allocated to segments

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(420

|

)

|

|

|

(455

|

)

|

|

|

(483

|

)  
  
Equity method investments

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,863

|

|

|

|

886

|

|

|

|

657

|  
  
Goodwill and intangible asset impairments

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(10,671

|

)  
  
Corporate, eliminations and other

|

|

|

136

|

|

|

|

(327

|

)

|

|

|

152

|

|

|

|

1,181

|

|

|

|

422

|

|

|

|

(1,572

|

)  
  
|

|

$

|

302,089

|

|

|

$

|

276,203

|

|

|

$

|

245,579

|

|

|

$

|

(30,576

|

)

|

|

$

|

111,686

|

|

|

$

|

55,693

|  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Interest expense

|

|

|

Income tax expense (benefit)

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Operating Businesses

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

1,231

|

|

|

$

|

1,050

|

|

|

$

|

1,089

|  
  
BNSF

|

|

|

1,025

|

|

|

|

1,032

|

|

|

|

1,037

|

|

|

|

1,763

|

|

|

|

1,871

|

|

|

|

1,631

|  
  
BHE

|

|

|

2,140

|

|

|

|

2,054

|

|

|

|

1,941

|

|

|

|

(1,629

|

)

|

|

|

(1,153

|

)

|

|

|

(996

|

)  
  
Manufacturing

|

|

|

739

|

|

|

|

704

|

|

|

|

737

|

|

|

|

2,403

|

|

|

|

2,193

|

|

|

|

1,795

|  
  
McLane

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

66

|

|

|

|

61

|

|

|

|

71

|  
  
Service and retailing

|

|

|

42

|

|

|

|

38

|

|

|

|

61

|

|

|

|

1,131

|

|

|

|

1,086

|

|

|

|

669

|  
  
|

|

|

3,946

|

|

|

|

3,828

|

|

|

|

3,776

|

|

|

|

4,965

|

|

|

|

5,108

|

|

|

|

4,259

|  
  
Reconciliation to consolidated amount

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investment and derivative gains (losses)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(14,166

|

)

|

|

|

16,025

|

|

|

|

8,855

|  
  
Interest expense, not allocated to segments

|

|

|

420

|

|

|

|

455

|

|

|

|

483

|

|

|

|

(88

|

)

|

|

|

(96

|

)

|

|

|

(102

|

)  
  
Equity method investments

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

334

|

|

|

|

82

|

|

|

|

43

|  
  
Corporate, eliminations and other

|

|

|

(14

|

)

|

|

|

(111

|

)

|

|

|

(176

|

)

|

|

|

437

|

|

|

|

(240

|

)

|

|

|

(615

|

)  
  
|

|

$

|

4,352

|

|

|

$

|

4,172

|

|

|

$

|

4,083

|

|

|

$

|

(8,518

|

)

|

|

$

|

20,879

|

|

|

$

|

12,440

|  
  
K-111

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(25)

Business segment data (Continued)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Capital expenditures

|

|

|

Depreciation of tangible assets

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Operating Businesses

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance

|

|

$

|

82

|

|

|

$

|

62

|

|

|

$

|

50

|

|

|

$

|

69

|

|

|

$

|

72

|

|

|

$

|

74

|  
  
BNSF

|

|

|

3,532

|

|

|

|

2,910

|

|

|

|

3,063

|

|

|

|

2,479

|

|

|

|

2,406

|

|

|

|

2,423

|  
  
BHE

|

|

|

7,505

|

|

|

|

6,611

|

|

|

|

6,765

|

|

|

|

3,702

|

|

|

|

3,584

|

|

|

|

3,376

|  
  
Manufacturing

|

|

|

2,477

|

|

|

|

2,100

|

|

|

|

2,133

|

|

|

|

2,021

|

|

|

|

2,037

|

|

|

|

2,026

|  
  
McLane

|

|

|

93

|

|

|

|

106

|

|

|

|

98

|

|

|

|

176

|

|

|

|

189

|

|

|

|

204

|  
  
Service and retailing

|

|

|

1,775

|

|

|

|

1,487

|

|

|

|

903

|

|

|

|

1,219

|

|

|

|

1,177

|

|

|

|

1,216

|  
  
|

|

$

|

15,464

|

|

|

$

|

13,276

|

|

|

$

|

13,012

|

|

|

$

|

9,666

|

|

|

$

|

9,465

|

|

|

$

|

9,319

|  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Goodwill at year-end

|

|

|

Identifiable assets at year-end

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Operating Businesses

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Insurance

|

|

$

|

16,548

|

|

|

$

|

15,181

|

|

|

$

|

15,224

|

|

|

$

|

459,904

|

|

|

$

|

482,813

|

|

|

$

|

399,169

|  
  
BNSF

|

|

|

14,852

|

|

|

|

14,852

|

|

|

|

14,851

|

|

|

|

77,752

|

|

|

|

76,586

|

|

|

|

73,809

|  
  
BHE

|

|

|

11,745

|

|

|

|

11,906

|

|

|

|

11,763

|

|

|

|

118,114

|

|

|

|

113,447

|

|

|

|

109,880

|  
  
Manufacturing

|

|

|

28,460

|

|

|

|

25,463

|

|

|

|

25,512

|

|

|

|

113,578

|

|

|

|

107,231

|

|

|

|

104,318

|  
  
McLane

|

|

|

232

|

|

|

|

232

|

|

|

|

232

|

|

|

|

7,049

|

|

|

|

6,841

|

|

|

|

6,771

|  
  
Service and retailing

|

|

|

6,282

|

|

|

|

6,241

|

|

|

|

6,152

|

|

|

|

31,291

|

|

|

|

28,221

|

|

|

|

26,173

|  
  
|

|

$

|

78,119

|

|

|

$

|

73,875

|

|

|

$

|

73,734

|

|

|

|

807,688

|

|

|

|

815,139

|

|

|

|

720,120

|  
  
Reconciliation to consolidated amount

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Corporate and other

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

62,645

|

|

|

|

69,770

|

|

|

|

79,875

|  
  
Goodwill

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

78,119

|

|

|

|

73,875

|

|

|

|

73,734

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

$

|

948,452

|

|

|

$

|

958,784

|

|

|

$

|

873,729

|  
  
Property/casualty and life/health insurance premiums written and earned are
summarized below (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Property/Casualty

|

|

|

Life/Health

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Premiums Written:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Direct

|

$

|

56,700

|

|

|

$

|

53,829

|

|

|

$

|

47,838

|

|

|

$

|

582

|

|

|

$

|

649

|

|

|

$

|

510

|  
  
Assumed

|

|

15,143

|

|

|

|

12,461

|

|

|

|

11,533

|

|

|

|

5,235

|

|

|

|

5,685

|

|

|

|

5,960

|  
  
Ceded

|

|

(1,155

|

)

|

|

|

(1,015

|

)

|

|

|

(898

|

)

|

|

|

(37

|

)

|

|

|

(40

|

)

|

|

|

(42

|

)  
  
|

$

|

70,688

|

|

|

$

|

65,275

|

|

|

$

|

58,473

|

|

|

$

|

5,780

|

|

|

$

|

6,294

|

|

|

$

|

6,428

|  
  
Premiums Earned:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Direct

|

$

|

55,879

|

|

|

$

|

52,139

|

|

|

$

|

46,418

|

|

|

$

|

582

|

|

|

$

|

649

|

|

|

$

|

510

|  
  
Assumed

|

|

14,184

|

|

|

|

12,072

|

|

|

|

11,449

|

|

|

|

5,332

|

|

|

|

5,713

|

|

|

|

5,973

|  
  
Ceded

|

|

(1,293

|

)

|

|

|

(1,054

|

)

|

|

|

(907

|

)

|

|

|

(39

|

)

|

|

|

(41

|

)

|

|

|

(42

|

)  
  
|

$

|

68,770

|

|

|

$

|

63,157

|

|

|

$

|

56,960

|

|

|

$

|

5,875

|

|

|

$

|

6,321

|

|

|

$

|

6,441

|  
  
Insurance premiums written by geographic region (based upon the domicile of
the insured or reinsured) are summarized below (in millions).

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

Property/Casualty

|

|

|

Life/Health

|  
  
|

2022

|

|

2021

|

|

2020

|

|

|

2022

|

|

2021

|

|

2020

|  
  
United States

|

$

|

59,648

|

|

$

|

55,451

|

|

$

|

50,250

|

|

|

$

|

2,120

|

|

$

|

2,161

|

|

$

|

2,820

|  
  
Western Europe

|

|

4,901

|

|

|

4,613

|

|

|

3,751

|

|

|

|

1,235

|

|

|

1,298

|

|

|

1,120

|  
  
Asia Pacific

|

|

4,699

|

|

|

3,822

|

|

|

3,410

|

|

|

|

1,704

|

|

|

2,030

|

|

|

1,652

|  
  
All other

|

|

1,440

|

|

|

1,389

|

|

|

1,062

|

|

|

|

721

|

|

|

805

|

|

|

836

|  
  
|

$

|

70,688

|

|

$

|

65,275

|

|

$

|

58,473

|

|

|

$

|

5,780

|

|

$

|

6,294

|

|

$

|

6,428

|  
  
K-112

* * *

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(25)

Business segment data (Continued)

Consolidated sales, service and leasing revenues were $165.0 billion in 2022,
$151.0 billion in 2021 and $132.3 billion in 2020. Sales, service and leasing
revenues attributable to the United States were 86% in 2022, 85% in 2021 and
86% in 2020 of such amounts. The remainder of sales, service and leasing
revenues were primarily in Europe, Canada and the Asia Pacific region.
Railroad, utilities and energy revenues were $52.1 billion in 2022, $48.2
billion in 2021 and $41.8 billion in 2020. In each of the three years,
approximately 96% of such revenues were attributable to the United States. At
December 31, 2022, approximately 90% of our consolidated net property, plant
and equipment and equipment held for lease was located in the United States
with the remainder primarily in Canada and the United Kingdom.

(26)

Contingencies and Commitments

We are parties in a variety of legal actions that routinely arise out of the
normal course of business, including legal actions seeking to establish
liability directly through insurance contracts or indirectly through
reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries. Plaintiffs
occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. We do not believe that such
normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on our financial
condition or results of operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries
are also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert or may
assert claims or seek to impose fines and penalties. We currently believe that
any liability that may arise as a result of other pending legal actions will
not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results
of operations.

Our subsidiaries regularly make commitments in the ordinary course of business
for the future purchase of goods and services used in their businesses, which
are not yet reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The most
significant of our long-term commitments relate to our railroad, utilities and
energy businesses, our shared aircraft ownership and leasing business and
certain raw materials purchase commitments. As of December 31, 2022, estimated
future payments under those arrangements were as follows: $12 billion in 2023,
$5 billion in 2024, $3 billion in 2025, $2 billion in 2026, $2 billion in 2027
and $18 billion after 2027.

Since October 2017, we have owned a 38.6% interest in Pilot, headquartered in
Knoxville, Tennessee. Pilot is the largest operator of travel centers in North
America (primarily under the names Pilot or Flying J) with more than 650
travel center locations across 44 U.S. states and six Canadian provinces.
Pilot also has over 150 retail locations in the U.S. and Canada where it sells
diesel fuel through various arrangements with third party travel centers.
Through December 31, 2022, we accounted for our investment in Pilot under the
equity method and the carrying value of our investment was $3.2 billion as of
December 31, 2022. On January 31, 2023, we acquired an additional 41.4%
interest for approximately $8.2 billion. This amount is based on a contractual
agreement that is dependent on Pilot's earnings for 2022 and its net debt at
the end of 2022, and is subject to post-closing adjustments following the
completion of Pilot's independent public accountant's audit of its 2022
financial statements. We obtained control of Pilot for financial reporting
purposes on January 31, 2023 and, consequently, we will discontinue the use of
the equity method and include Pilot's financial statements in our Consolidated
Financial Statements at that date.

In applying the acquisition method of accounting, we are required to remeasure
our previously held 38.6% interest in Pilot to fair value as of January 31,
2023. The excess of the fair value of that interest over the carrying value
under the equity method will be recorded as a remeasurement gain.

Given the proximity of the acquisition date of the additional Pilot interest
to the date these Consolidated Financial Statements are issued, it was
impracticable to provide an initial estimate of the fair values of
identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and residual goodwill or
proforma information. We expect to provide such disclosures in our
Consolidated Financial Statements beginning with our interim report for the
quarterly period ending March 31, 2023.

We may be obligated to acquire certain noncontrolling interests in less-than-
wholly-owned subsidiaries in the future, pursuant to the terms of agreements
with the noncontrolling shareholders for cash or other assets. The timing and
the amount of any future payments that might be required to such
noncontrolling shareholders are contingent on future actions of the
noncontrolling owners and the value of the interest being acquired.

In June 2022, BHE acquired the BHE common stock held by Gregory Abel,
Berkshire's Vice Chairman - non-insurance operations, for $870 million. The
purchase was pursuant to the terms of a shareholder agreement between
Berkshire, BHE and BHE's noncontrolling shareholders. Berkshire recorded a
charge of $362 million to capital in excess of par value for the excess of the
consideration paid over the carrying value of the acquired noncontrolling
interest.

K-113

* * *

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

None

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

At the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the
Corporation carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the
participation of the Corporation's management, including the Chairman (Chief
Executive Officer) and the Senior Vice President (Chief Financial Officer), of
the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Corporation's disclosure
controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon that
evaluation, the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Senior Vice
President (Chief Financial Officer) concluded that the Corporation's
disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to
material information relating to the Corporation (including its consolidated
subsidiaries) required to be included in the Corporation's periodic SEC
filings. The report called for by Item 308(a) of Regulation S-K is
incorporated herein by reference to Management's Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting, included on page K-66 of this report. The
attestation report called for by Item 308(b) of Regulation S-K is incorporated
herein by reference to the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm, included on page K-67 of this report. There has been no change in the
Corporation's internal control over financial reporting during the quarter
ended December 31, 2022 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
to materially affect, the Corporation's internal control over financial
reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information

None

Part III

Except for the information set forth under the caption "Executive Officers of
the Registrant" in Part I hereof, information required by this Part (Items 10,
11, 12, 13 and 14) is incorporated by reference from the Registrant's
definitive proxy statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, for the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant to be held on May 6, 2023, which
will involve the election of directors.

Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)1. Financial Statements

The following Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, are included in Part II Item 8
of this report:

|  
---|---  
  
|

PAGE  
  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34)

|

K-67  
  
Consolidated Balance Sheets--

December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021

|

K-70  
  
Consolidated Statements of Earnings--

Years Ended December 31, 2022, December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2020

|

K-72  
  
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income--

Years Ended December 31, 2022, December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2020

|

K-73  
  
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity--

Years Ended December 31, 2022, December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2020

|

K-73  
  
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--

Years Ended December 31, 2022, December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2020

|

K-74  
  
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

|

K-75  
  
|  
  
2\. Financial Statement Schedule

|  
  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

|

K-115  
  
Schedule I--Parent Company Condensed Financial Information

Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, Statements of Earnings and
Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2022,
December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2020 and Note to Condensed Financial
Information

|

K-116  
  
|  
  
Other schedules are omitted because they are not required, information therein
is not applicable, or is reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements or
notes thereto.

|  
  
(b) Exhibits

See the "Exhibit Index" at page K-118.

K-114

* * *

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

Omaha, Nebraska

Opinion on the Financial Statement Schedule

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, and the
Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022,
and have issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2023; such consolidated
financial statements and reports are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company listed in
the Index at Item 15. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility
of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the Company's financial statement schedule based on our audits. In our
opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to
the financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Omaha, Nebraska

February 25, 2023

K-115

* * *

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. (Parent Company)

Condensed Financial Information

(Dollars in millions)

Schedule I

Balance Sheets

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Assets:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents

|

|

$

|

2,777

|

|

|

$

|

18,797

|  
  
Short-term investments in U.S. Treasury Bills

|

|

|

17,628

|

|

|

|

9,681

|  
  
Investments in and advances to consolidated subsidiaries

|

|

|

462,030

|

|

|

|

486,862

|  
  
Investment in The Kraft Heinz Company

|

|

|

12,937

|

|

|

|

13,112

|  
  
Other assets

|

|

|

12

|

|

|

|

140

|  
  
|

|

$

|

495,384

|

|

|

$

|

528,592

|  
  
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Accounts payable, accrued interest and other liabilities

|

|

$

|

355

|

|

|

$

|

237

|  
  
Income taxes, principally deferred

|

|

|

1,276

|

|

|

|

747

|  
  
Notes payable and other borrowings

|

|

|

21,393

|

|

|

|

21,409

|  
  
|

|

|

23,024

|

|

|

|

22,393

|  
  
Berkshire Hathaway shareholders' equity

|

|

|

472,360

|

|

|

|

506,199

|  
  
|

|

$

|

495,384

|

|

|

$

|

528,592

|  
  
Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Income

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Income items:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
From consolidated subsidiaries:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Dividends and distributions

|

|

$

|

15,724

|

|

|

$

|

13,462

|

|

|

$

|

26,110

|  
  
Undistributed earnings (losses)

|

|

|

(39,639

|

)

|

|

|

74,819

|

|

|

|

17,402

|  
  
|

|

|

(23,915

|

)

|

|

|

88,281

|

|

|

|

43,512

|  
  
Investment gains (losses)

|

|

|

(34

|

)

|

|

|

35

|

|

|

|

(24

|

)  
  
Equity in earnings of The Kraft Heinz Company

|

|

|

628

|

|

|

|

269

|

|

|

|

95

|  
  
Other income

|

|

|

413

|

|

|

|

73

|

|

|

|

328

|  
  
|

|

|

(22,908

|

)

|

|

|

88,658

|

|

|

|

43,911

|  
  
Cost and expense items:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
General and administrative

|

|

|

131

|

|

|

|

136

|

|

|

|

194

|  
  
Interest expense

|

|

|

513

|

|

|

|

444

|

|

|

|

489

|  
  
Foreign exchange (gains) losses on non-U.S. Dollar denominated debt

|

|

|

(1,401

|

)

|

|

|

(1,281

|

)

|

|

|

970

|  
  
Income tax expense (benefit)

|

|

|

668

|

|

|

|

(436

|

)

|

|

|

(263

|

)  
  
|

|

|

(89

|

)

|

|

|

(1,137

|

)

|

|

|

1,390

|  
  
Net earnings (loss) attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders

|

|

|

(22,819

|

)

|

|

|

89,795

|

|

|

|

42,521

|  
  
Other comprehensive income attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders

|

|

|

(2,564

|

)

|

|

|

216

|

|

|

|

1,000

|  
  
Comprehensive income attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders

|

|

$

|

(25,383

|

)

|

|

$

|

90,011

|

|

|

$

|

43,521

|  
  
See Note to Condensed Financial Information

K-116

* * *

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. (Parent Company)

Condensed Financial Information

(Dollars in millions)

Schedule I (continued)

Statements of Cash Flows

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Cash flows from operating activities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Net earnings (loss) attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders

|

|

$

|

(22,819

|

)

|

|

$

|

89,795

|

|

|

$

|

42,521

|  
  
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings (loss) to operating cash flows:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investment (gains) losses

|

|

|

34

|

|

|

|

(35

|

)

|

|

|

24

|  
  
Undistributed (earnings) losses of consolidated subsidiaries

|

|

|

39,639

|

|

|

|

(74,819

|

)

|

|

|

(17,402

|

)  
  
Non-cash dividends from subsidiaries

|

|

|

(7,220

|

)

|

|

|

(2,126

|

)

|

|

|

(8,296

|

)  
  
Income taxes payable

|

|

|

661

|

|

|

|

(389

|

)

|

|

|

(72

|

)  
  
Other

|

|

|

(1,833

|

)

|

|

|

(1,038

|

)

|

|

|

1,100

|  
  
Net cash flows from operating activities

|

|

|

8,462

|

|

|

|

11,388

|

|

|

|

17,875

|  
  
Cash flows from investing activities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Investments in and advances to consolidated subsidiaries, net

|

|

|

(11,852

|

)

|

|

|

(174

|

)

|

|

|

(1,947

|

)  
  
Purchases of U.S. Treasury Bills

|

|

|

(44,187

|

)

|

|

|

(34,988

|

)

|

|

|

(54,715

|

)  
  
Sales and maturities of U.S. Treasury Bills

|

|

|

37,915

|

|

|

|

57,296

|

|

|

|

59,035

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

128

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

11

|  
  
Net cash flows from investing activities

|

|

|

(17,996

|

)

|

|

|

22,134

|

|

|

|

2,384

|  
  
Cash flows from financing activities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Proceeds from borrowings

|

|

|

1,970

|

|

|

|

2,174

|

|

|

|

2,923

|  
  
Repayments of borrowings

|

|

|

(602

|

)

|

|

|

(2,167

|

)

|

|

|

(1,151

|

)  
  
Acquisition of treasury stock

|

|

|

(7,854

|

)

|

|

|

(27,061

|

)

|

|

|

(24,706

|

)  
  
Net cash flows from financing activities

|

|

|

(6,486

|

)

|

|

|

(27,054

|

)

|

|

|

(22,934

|

)  
  
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

|

|

|

(16,020

|

)

|

|

|

6,468

|

|

|

|

(2,675

|

)  
  
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

|

|

|

18,797

|

|

|

|

12,329

|

|

|

|

15,004

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

|

|

$

|

2,777

|

|

|

$

|

18,797

|

|

|

$

|

12,329

|  
  
Other cash flow information:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Income taxes paid

|

|

$

|

2,259

|

|

|

$

|

3,403

|

|

|

$

|

3,391

|  
  
Interest paid

|

|

|

332

|

|

|

|

377

|

|

|

|

359

|  
  
Note to Condensed Financial Information

Berkshire currently owns 26.6% of the outstanding shares of The Kraft Heinz
Company ("Kraft Heinz") common stock, which is accounted for pursuant to the
equity method. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On October
19, 2022, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Alleghany
Corporation for $11.5 billion. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

In January 2022, the Parent Company issued ¥128.5 billion (approximately $1.1
billion) of senior notes with maturity dates ranging from 2027 to 2052 and a
weighted average interest rate of 0.5%. In December 2022, the Parent Company
also issued ¥115.0 billion (approximately $840 million) of senior notes with
maturity dates ranging from 2025 to 2052 and a weighted average interest rate
of 1.1%. As of December 31, 2022, the Parent Company's non-U.S. Dollar
denominated borrowings included €6.9 billion and ¥1,029 billion par value
senior notes. The gains and losses from the periodic remeasurement of these
non-U.S. Dollar denominated notes due to changes in foreign currency exchange
rates are included in earnings. In the first two months of 2023, Berkshire
repaid $1.1 billion of maturing senior notes. An additional $3.2 billion of
Berkshire senior notes mature in March and April of 2023.

Parent Company debt maturities over the next five years are as follows:
2023--$4.3 billion; 2024--$1.9 billion; 2025--$2.0 billion; 2026--$3.2 billion
and 2027--$2.1 billion. The Parent Company guarantees certain debt of
subsidiaries, which aggregated approximately $21.7 billion at December 31,
2022 and was primarily debt issued by Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation.
Such guarantees are an absolute, unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for
the full and prompt payment when due of all present and future payment
obligations. The Parent Company has also provided guarantees in connection
with certain retroactive reinsurance contracts issued by subsidiaries. The
amounts of subsidiary payments under these contracts, if any, is contingent
upon the outcome of future events.

K-117

* * *

EXHIBIT INDEX

|  |  
---|---|---  
  
Exhibit No.

|

|  
  
2(i)

|

|

[Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 19, 1998 between Berkshire and
General Re Corporation. Incorporated by reference to Annex I to Registration
Statement No. 333-61129 filed on Form
S-4.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/109694/0000898430-98-002915.txt)  
  
|

|  
  
2(ii)

|

|

[Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 2, 2009 by and among
Berkshire, R Acquisition Company, LLC and BNSF. Incorporated by reference to
Annex A to Registration Statement No. 333-163343 on Form S-4.
](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1067983/000119312509259076/ds4a.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
2(iii)

|

|

[Agreement and Plan of Merger dated August 8, 2015, by and among Berkshire, NW
Merger Sub Inc. and Precision Castparts Corporation ("PCC") Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 2.1 to PCC's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August
10, 2015 (SEC File No.
001-10348)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/79958/000095015715000890/ex2-1.htm)  
  
|  
  
|

|  
  
3(i)

|

|

[Restated Certificate of Incorporation Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
3(i) to Form 10-K filed on March 2,
2015.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1067983/000119312515070966/d820461dex3i.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
3(ii)

|

|

[By-Laws Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to Form 8-K filed on May
4,
2022.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1067983/000119312522140533/d308971dex3ii.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
4.1

|

|

[Indenture, dated as of December 22, 2003, between Berkshire Hathaway Finance
Corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
Association), as trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 on Form S-4
of Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. filed on
February 4, 2004. SEC File No.
333-112486](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1067983/000095015004000136/a95961exv4w1.txt)  
  
|  
  
|

|  
  
4.2

|

|

[Indenture, dated as of February 1, 2010, among Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
Berkshire's Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on February 1, 2010. SEC
File No.
333-164611](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1067983/000119312510017756/dex41.htm)  
  
|  
  
|

|  
  
4.3

|

|

[Indenture, dated as of January 26, 2016, by and among Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
Berkshire's Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on January 26, 2016. SEC
File No.
333-209122](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1067983/000119312516438352/d196756dex41.htm)  
  
|  
  
|

|  
  
4.4

|

|

[Indenture, dated as of December 1, 1995, between BNSF and The First National
Bank of Chicago, as trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 on Form
S-3 of BNSF filed on February 8,
1999.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/934612/0000950131-99-000661.txt)  
  
|

|  
  
4.5

|

|

[Indenture, dated as of October 4, 2002, by and between MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Company and The Bank of New York, Trustee. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.1 to the Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company Registration Statement
No. 333-101699 dated December 6,
2002.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1081316/000095013602003427/file002.txt)  
  
|  
  
|

|  
  
4.6

|

|

[Indenture, dated as of January 28, 2022, by and among Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., as an issuer and a guarantor of the debt securities issued by Berkshire
Hathaway Finance Corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation, as an
issuer, and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Berkshire's Registration Statement
on Form S-3 filed on January 28, 2022. SEC File No
333-262384.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1067983/000119312522021211/d277039dex41.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
|

|

Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of
Registrant and its subsidiaries are not being filed since the total amount of
securities authorized by all other such instruments does not exceed 10% of the
total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as
of December 31, 2022. The Registrant hereby agrees to furnish to the
Commission upon request a copy of any such debt instrument to which it is a
party.  
  
|

|  
  
10.1

|

|

[Equity Commitment Letter of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. with Hawk Acquisition
Holding Corporation dated February 13, 2013. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 on Form 8-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. filed on February 14,
2013.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1067983/000119312513060036/d487537dex101.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
14

|

|

Code of Ethics  
  
|

|

Berkshire's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on its Internet
website at www.berkshirehathaway.com  
  
|

|  
  
21

|

|

[Subsidiaries of Registrant ](brka-ex21.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
23

|

|

[Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm](brka-ex23.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
K-118

* * *

|  |  
---|---|---  
  
Exhibit No.

|

|  
  
31.1

|

|

[Rule 13a--14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification](brka-ex31_1.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
31.2

|

|

[Rule 13a--14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification](brka-ex31_2.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
32.1

|

|

[Section 1350 Certification](brka-ex32_1.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
32.2

|

|

[Section 1350 Certification](brka-ex32_2.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
95

|

|

[Mine Safety Disclosures](brka-ex95.htm)  
  
|

|  
  
101

|

|

The following financial information from Berkshire Hathaway Inc.'s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, formatted in iXBRL
(Inline Extensible Business Reporting Language) includes: (i) the Cover Page
(ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of
Earnings, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (v) the
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, (vi) the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vii) the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements and Schedule I, tagged in summary and detail.  
  
|

|  
  
104

|

|

Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as iXBRL and contained in Exhibit
101)  
  
K-119

* * *

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

|  
---|---  
  
|

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.  
  
|  
  
Date: February 25, 2023

|

/S/ MARC D. HAMBURG  
  
|

Marc D. Hamburg

Senior Vice President and

Principal Financial Officer  
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

|  |  
---|---|---  
  
/S/ WARREN E. BUFFETT

Warren E. Buffett

|

Chairman of the Board of

Directors--Chief Executive Officer

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ GREGORY E. ABEL

Gregory E. Abel

|

Director--Vice Chairman--Non-Insurance Operations

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ HOWARD G. BUFFETT

Howard G. Buffett

|

Director

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ SUSAN A. BUFFETT

Susan A. Buffett

|

Director

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ STEPHEN B. BURKE

Stephen B. Burke

|

Director

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ KENNETH I. CHENAULT

Kenneth I. Chenault

|

Director

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ CHRISTOPHER C. DAVIS

Christopher C. Davis

|

Director

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ SUSAN L. DECKER

Susan L. Decker

|

Director

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ CHARLOTTE GUYMAN

Charlotte Guyman

|

Director

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ AJIT JAIN

Ajit Jain

|

Director--Vice Chairman--Insurance Operations

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ CHARLES T. MUNGER

Charles T. Munger

|

Director--Vice Chairman

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ THOMAS S. MURPHY, JR.

Thomas S. Murphy, Jr.

|

Director

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ RONALD L. OLSON

Ronald L. Olson

|

Director

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ WALLACE R. WEITZ

Wallace R. Weitz

|

Director

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ MERYL B. WITMER

Meryl B. Witmer

|

Director

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ MARC D. HAMBURG

Marc D. Hamburg

|

Senior Vice President--Principal Financial Officer

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
|

|  
  
/S/ DANIEL J. JAKSICH

Daniel J. Jaksich

|

Vice President--Principal Accounting Officer

|

February 25, 2023

Date  
  
K-120

* * *

