falseSeptember 3, 20232023FYCOSTCO WHOLESALE CORP
/NEW000090983209/030.0050.005100,000,000100,000,000--------
0.0050.005900,000,000900,000,000442,793,000442,664,000442,793,000442,664,000P5YP3YP5Y0M0D111http://fasb.org/us-

Table of Contents

  

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

| |  
---|---|---  
  
FORM 10-K

| |  
---|---|---  
  
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
☒  
| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934  
  
For the fiscal year ended September 3, 2023

or

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
☐

| TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934  
  
Commission file number 0-20355

| |  
---|---|---  
  
Costco Wholesale Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

| |  
---|---|---  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Washington|  | 91-1223280  
(State or other jurisdiction of  
incorporation or organization)|  | (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  
  
999 Lake Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (425) 313-8100

| |  
---|---|---  
  
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Title of each class| | Trading Symbol| | Name of each exchange on  
which registered  
Common Stock, $.005 Par Value| | COST| | The NASDAQ Global Select Market  
  
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such
files). Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer,"
"accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth
company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Large accelerated filer | ☒| Accelerated filer | ☐  
Non-accelerated filer | ☐| Smaller reporting company | ☐  
| | Emerging growth company| ☐  
  
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has
elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new
or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a)
of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and
attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting
firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by
check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the
filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financials
statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements
that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by
any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period
pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined
in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☒

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of February 12, 2023 was $221,351,787,419.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of
October 3, 2023, was 442,740,572.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on January 18, 2024, are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this Form 10-K.

  

* * *

Table of Contents

  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 3, 2023

TABLE OF CONTENTS

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Page  
  
PART I

| |  
Item 1.|

Business

|

3  
  
Item 1A.|

Risk Factors

|

8  
  
Item 1B.|

Unresolved Staff Comments

|

17  
  
Item 2.|

Properties

|

17  
  
Item 3.|

Legal Proceedings

|

18  
  
Item 4.|

Mine Safety Disclosures

|

18  
  
| |  
  
PART II

| |  
Item 5.|

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities

|

18  
  
Item 6.|

Reserved

|

19  
  
Item 7.|

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

|

20  
  
Item 7A.|

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

|

28  
  
Item 8.|

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

|

30  
  
Item 9.|

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

|

60  
  
Item 9A.|

Controls and Procedures

|

60  
  
Item 9B.|

Other Information

|

61  
  
Item 9C.|

Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

|

61  
  
| |  
  
PART III

| |  
Item 10.|

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

|

61  
  
Item 11.|

Executive Compensation

|

61  
  
Item 12.|

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters

|

61  
  
Item 13.|

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

|

61  
  
Item 14.|

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

|

61  
  
| |  
  
PART IV

| |  
Item 15.|

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

|

62  
  
Item 16.|

Form 10-K Summary

|

65  
  
|

Signatures

|

66  
  
2

* * *

Table of Contents

  

INFORMATION RELATING TO FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995. For these purposes, forward-looking statements are statements that
address activities, events, conditions or developments that the Company
expects or anticipates may occur in the future and may relate to such matters
as net sales growth, changes in comparable sales, cannibalization of existing
locations by new openings, price or fee changes, earnings performance,
earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense, warehouse openings and
closures, capital spending, the effect of adopting certain accounting
standards, future financial reporting, financing, margins, return on invested
capital, strategic direction, expense controls, membership renewal rates,
shopping frequency, litigation, and the demand for our products and services.
In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified because they
contain words such as "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could,"
"estimate," "expect," "intend," "likely," "may," "might," "plan," "potential,"
"predict," "project," "seek," "should," "target," "will," "would," or similar
expressions and the negatives of those terms. Such forward-looking statements
involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results, or
performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements,
including, without limitation, the factors set forth in the section titled
"Item 1A-Risk Factors", and other factors noted in the section titled "Item
7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and in the consolidated financial statements and related notes in
Item 8 of this Report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date
they are made, and we do not undertake to update these statements, except as
required by law.

PART I

Item 1--Business

Costco Wholesale Corporation and its subsidiaries (Costco or the Company)
began operations in 1983, in Seattle, Washington. We are principally engaged
in the operation of membership warehouses in the United States (U.S.) and
Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Japan, the United Kingdom (U.K.), Korea,
Australia, Taiwan, China, Spain, France, Iceland, New Zealand, and Sweden.
Costco operated 861, 838, and 815 warehouses worldwide at September 3, 2023,
August 28, 2022, and August 29, 2021. The Company operates e-commerce websites
in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, the U.K., Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and Australia.
Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, under the symbol
"COST."

We report on a 52/53-week fiscal year, consisting of thirteen four-week
periods and ending on the Sunday nearest the end of August. The first three
quarters consist of three periods each, and the fourth quarter consists of
four periods (five weeks in the thirteenth period in a 53-week year). The
material seasonal impact in our operations is increased net sales and earnings
during the winter holiday season. References to 2023 relate to the 53-week
fiscal year ended September 3, 2023. References to 2022 and 2021 relate to the
52-week fiscal years ended August 28, 2022, and August 29, 2021.

General

We operate membership warehouses and e-commerce websites based on the concept
that offering our members low prices on a limited selection of nationally-
branded and private-label products in a wide range of categories will produce
high sales volumes and rapid inventory turnover. When combined with the
operating efficiencies achieved by volume purchasing, efficient distribution
and reduced handling of merchandise in no-frills, self-service warehouse
facilities, these volumes and turnover enable us to operate profitably at
significantly lower gross margins (net sales less merchandise costs) than most
other retailers. We often sell inventory before we are required to pay for it,
even while taking advantage of early payment discounts.

We buy most of our merchandise directly from suppliers and route it to cross-
docking consolidation points (depots) or directly to our warehouses. Our
depots receive large shipments from suppliers and quickly ship these goods to
warehouses. This process creates freight volume and handling efficiencies,
lowering costs associated with traditional multiple-step distribution
channels. Our e-commerce operations ship

3

* * *

Table of Contents

  

merchandise through our depots and logistics operations, as well as through
drop-ship and other delivery arrangements with our suppliers.

Our average warehouse space is approximately 147,000 square feet, with newer
units being slightly larger. Floor plans are designed for economy and
efficiency in the use of selling space, the handling of merchandise, and the
control of inventory. Because shoppers are attracted principally by the
quality of merchandise and low prices, our warehouses are not elaborate. By
strictly controlling the entrances and exits and using a membership format, we
believe our inventory losses (shrinkage) are well below those of typical
retail operations.

Our warehouses on average operate on a seven-day, 70-hour week. Gasoline
operations generally have extended hours. Because the hours of operation are
shorter than many other retailers, and due to other efficiencies inherent in a
warehouse-type operation, labor costs are lower relative to the volume of
sales. Merchandise is generally stored on racks above the sales floor and
displayed on pallets containing large quantities, reducing labor required. In
general, with variations by country, our warehouses accept certain credit
cards, including Costco co-branded cards, debit cards, cash and checks,
Executive member 2% reward certificates, co-brand cardholder rebates, and our
proprietary stored-value card (shop card).

Our strategy is to provide our members with a broad range of high-quality
merchandise at prices we believe are consistently lower than elsewhere. We
seek to limit most items to fast-selling models, sizes, and colors. We carry
less than 4,000 active stock keeping units (SKUs) per warehouse in our core
warehouse business, significantly less than other broadline retailers. We
average anywhere from 9,000 to 11,000 SKUs online, some of which are also
available in our warehouses. Many consumable products are offered for sale in
case, carton, or multiple-pack quantities only.

In keeping with our policy of member satisfaction, we generally accept returns
of merchandise. On certain electronic items, we typically have a 90-day return
policy and provide, free of charge, technical support services, as well as an
extended warranty. Additional third-party warranty coverage is sold on certain
electronic items.

We offer merchandise and services in the following categories:

Core Merchandise Categories (or core business):

•Foods and Sundries (including sundries, dry grocery, candy, cooler, freezer,
deli, liquor, and tobacco)

•Non-Foods (including major appliances, electronics, health and beauty aids,
hardware, garden and patio, sporting goods, tires, toys and seasonal, office
supplies, automotive care, postage, tickets, apparel, small appliances,
furniture, domestics, housewares, special order kiosk, and jewelry)

•Fresh Foods (including meat, produce, service deli, and bakery)

Warehouse Ancillary (includes gasoline, pharmacy, optical, food court, hearing
aids, and tire installation) and Other Businesses (includes e-commerce1,
business centers1, travel, and other)

Warehouse ancillary businesses operate primarily within or next to our
warehouses, encouraging members to shop more frequently. The number of
warehouses with gas stations varies significantly by country, and we have no
gasoline business in Korea, China, or Sweden. We operated 692 gas stations at
the end of 2023. Our gasoline business represented approximately 13% of total
net sales in 2023.

Our other businesses sell products and services that complement our warehouse
operations (core and warehouse ancillary businesses). Our e-commerce
operations give members convenience and a broader selection of goods and
services. Net sales for e-commerce represented approximately 6% of total net
sales in 2023. This figure does not include other services we offer online in
certain countries such as business delivery, travel, same-day grocery, and
various other services. Our business centers carry items

1 E-commerce and business centers are allocated to the appropriate merchandise
categories in the Net Sales portion of Item 7.

4

* * *

Table of Contents

  

tailored specifically for food services, convenience stores and offices, and
offer walk-in shopping and deliveries. Business centers are included in our
total warehouse count. Costco Travel offers vacation packages, car rentals,
cruises, hotels, and other travel products exclusively for Costco members
(offered in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K.).

We have direct buying relationships with many producers of brand-name
merchandise. We do not obtain a significant portion of merchandise from any
one supplier. When sources of supply become unavailable, we seek alternatives.
We also purchase and manufacture private-label merchandise, as long as quality
and member demand are high and the value to our members is significant.

Certain financial information for our segments and geographic areas is
included in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item
8 of this Report.

Membership

Our members may utilize their memberships at all of our warehouses and
websites. Gold Star memberships are available to individuals; Business
memberships are limited to businesses, including individuals with a business
license, retail sales license, or comparable document. Business members may
add additional cardholders (affiliates), to which the same annual fee applies.
Affiliates are not available for Gold Star members. Our annual fee for these
memberships is $60 in the U.S. and varies in other countries. All paid
memberships include a free household card.

Our member renewal rate was 92.7% in the U.S. and Canada and 90.4% worldwide
at the end of 2023. The majority of members renew within six months following
their renewal date. Our renewal rate, which excludes affiliates of Business
members, is a trailing calculation that captures renewals during the period
seven to eighteen months prior to the reporting date. Our membership counts
include active memberships as well as memberships that have not renewed within
the 12 months prior to the reporting date.

Our membership was made up of the following (in thousands):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Gold Star| 58,800 | | | 54,000 | | | 50,200 |  
Business, including affiliates| 12,200 | | | 11,800 | | | 11,500 |  
Total paid members| 71,000 | | | 65,800 | | | 61,700 |  
Household cards| 56,900 | | | 53,100 | | | 49,900 |  
Total cardholders| 127,900 | | | 118,900 | | | 111,600 |  
  
Paid cardholders (except affiliates) are eligible to upgrade to an Executive
membership in the U.S., for an additional annual fee of $60. Executive
memberships are also available in Canada, Mexico, the U.K., Japan, Korea,
Taiwan, and Australia, for which the additional fee varies. Executive members
earn a 2% reward on qualified purchases (generally up to a maximum reward of
$1,000 per year), redeemable at Costco warehouses. This program offers
services that vary by state and country and provide access to additional
savings and benefits on various business and consumer services, such as auto
and home insurance, the Costco auto purchase program, and check printing.
Executive members totaled 32.3 million and represented 45.4% of paid members.
The sales penetration of Executive members represented approximately 72.8% of
worldwide net sales in 2023.

Human Capital

Our Code of Ethics requires that we "Take Care of Our Employees," which is
fundamental to the obligation to "Take Care of Our Members." We must also
carefully control our selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, so
that we can sell high quality goods and services at low prices. Compensation
and benefits for employees is our largest expense after the cost of
merchandise and is carefully monitored.

5

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Employee Base

At the end of 2023, we employed 316,000 employees worldwide. Approximately 95%
are employed in our membership warehouses and distribution channels, and
approximately 5% are represented by unions. We also utilize seasonal
employees.

The total number of employees by segment was:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
United States| 208,000 | | | 202,000 | | | 192,000 |  
Canada| 51,000 | | | 50,000 | | | 47,000 |  
Other International| 57,000 | | | 52,000 | | | 49,000 |  
Total employees| 316,000 | | | 304,000 | | | 288,000 |  
  
  

Growth and Engagement

We believe that our warehouses are among the most productive in the retail
industry, owing largely to the commitment and efficiency of our employees. We
seek to provide them not merely with employment but careers. Many attributes
of our business contribute to the objective. The more significant include:
competitive compensation and benefits for those working in our membership
warehouses and distributions channels; a commitment to promoting from within;
and a target ratio of at least 50% of our employee base being full-time
employees. These attributes contribute to what we consider, especially for the
industry, a high retention rate. In 2023, in the U.S. that rate was
approximately 90% for employees who have been with us for at least one year.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

The commitment to "Take Care of Our Employees" is also the foundation of our
approach to promoting diversity, equity and inclusion and creating an
inclusive and respectful workplace. We strive for an environment where all
employees feel that they belong, are accepted, included, respected and
supported because of who they are. We demonstrate leadership commitment to
equity through consistent communication, employee development and education,
support of diversity and inclusion initiatives within the organization,
community involvement, and supplier diversity. Costco continues its efforts to
develop future leaders, including through the supervisor in training programs.
In 2023, over 7,800 hourly employees completed the 6-week course.

Well Being

Costco strives to provide our employees with competitive wages and excellent
benefits. In March 2023, we increased the top of the wage scales by 85 cents
per hour in the U.S, Canada and Puerto Rico. In September of 2023, we
increased the starting wage to at least $18.50 for all entry-level positions
in the U.S. We have also expanded our benefits in the U.S. to include
additional mental health support for children and adults at little to no cost
to our employees. Costco is firmly committed to protecting the health and
safety of our members and employees and to serving our communities.

For more detailed information regarding our programs and initiatives, see
"Employees" within our Sustainability Commitment (located on our website). The
Sustainability Commitment and other information on our website are not
incorporated by reference into and do not form any part of this Annual Report.

Competition

Our industry is highly competitive, based on factors such as price,
merchandise quality and selection, location, convenience, distribution
strategy, and customer service. We compete on a worldwide basis with global,
national, and regional wholesalers and retailers, including supermarkets,
supercenters, online

6

* * *

Table of Contents

  

retailers, gasoline stations, hard discounters, department and specialty
stores, and operators selling a single category or narrow range of
merchandise. Walmart, Target, Kroger, and Amazon are among our significant
general merchandise retail competitors in the U.S. We also compete with other
warehouse clubs, including Walmart's Sam's Club and BJ's Wholesale Club in the
U.S. Many of the major metropolitan areas in the U.S. and certain of our Other
International locations have multiple competing clubs.

Intellectual Property

We believe that, to varying degrees, our trademarks, trade names, copyrights,
proprietary processes, trade secrets, trade dress, domain names and similar
intellectual property add significant value to our business and are important
to our success. We have invested significantly in the development and
protection of our well-recognized brands, including the Costco Wholesale
trademarks and our private-label brand, Kirkland Signature. We believe that
Kirkland Signature products are high quality, offered at prices that are
generally lower than national brands, and help lower costs, differentiate our
merchandise offerings, and generally earn higher margins. We expect to
continue to increase the sales penetration of our private-label items.

We rely on trademark and copyright laws, trade-secret protection, and
confidentiality, license and other agreements with our suppliers, employees
and others to protect our intellectual property. The availability and duration
of trademark registrations vary by country; however, trademarks are generally
valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and
registrations are maintained.

Available Information

Our U.S. website is www.costco.com. We make available through the Investor
Relations section of that site, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy
Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and any amendments to those reports, as soon
as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with or furnishing such
documents to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information
found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or
furnished to the SEC. The SEC maintains a site that contains reports, proxy
and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as
the Company, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

We have a code of ethics for senior financial officers, pursuant to Section
406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Copies of the code are available free of charge
by writing to Secretary, Costco Wholesale Corporation, 999 Lake Drive,
Issaquah, WA 98027. If the Company makes any amendments to this code (other
than technical, administrative, or non-substantive amendments) or grants any
waivers, including implicit waivers, to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer or principal accounting officer and controller, we will
disclose (on our website or in a Form 8-K report filed with the SEC) the
nature of the amendment or waiver, its effective date, and to whom it applies.

7

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Information about our Executive Officers

The executive officers of Costco, their position, and ages are listed below.
All have over 25 years of service with the Company, with the exception of Mr.
Sullivan who has 22 years of service.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Name| | Position| | Executive  
Officer  
Since| | Age  
W. Craig Jelinek| | Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Jelinek has been a director
since February 2010. Mr. Jelinek previously was President and CEO from January
2012 to February 2022. He was President and Chief Operating Officer from
February 2010 to December 2011. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President,
Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising since 2004.| | 1995| | 71  
Ron M. Vachris| | President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Vachris has been
a director since February 2022. Mr. Vachris previously served as Executive
Vice President of Merchandising from June 2016 to January 2022, as Senior Vice
President, Real Estate Development, from August 2015 to June 2016, and Senior
Vice President, General Manager, Northwest Region, from 2010 to July 2015.| |
2016| | 58  
Richard A. Galanti| | Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Mr. Galanti has been a director since January 1995.| | 1993| | 67  
Jim C. Klauer| | Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern
Division. Mr. Klauer was Senior Vice President, Non-Foods and E-commerce
Merchandise, from 2013 to January 2018.| | 2018| | 61  
Russ D. Miller| | Senior Executive Vice President, U.S. Operations. Mr. Miller
was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Southwest Division and
Mexico, from January 2018 to May 2022. Mr. Miller was Senior Vice President,
Western Canada Region, from 2001 to January 2018.| | 2018| | 66  
Patrick J. Callans| | Executive Vice President, Administration. Mr. Callans
was Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Risk Management, from 2013 to
December 2018.| | 2019| | 61  
Yoram B. Rubanenko| | Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer,
Eastern Division. Mr. Rubanenko was Senior Vice President and General Manager,
Southeast Region, from 2013 to September 2021, and Vice President, Regional
Operations Manager for the Northeast Region, from 1998 to 2013.| | 2021| | 59  
John Sullivan| | Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate
Secretary. Mr. Sullivan has been General Counsel since 2016 and Corporate
Secretary since 2010.| | 2021| | 63  
Claudine E. Adamo| | Executive Vice President, Merchandising. Ms. Adamo was
Senior Vice President, Non-Foods, from 2018 to February 2022, and Vice
President, Non-Foods, from 2013 to 2018.| | 2022| | 53  
Caton Frates| | Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Southwest
Division. Mr. Frates was Senior Vice President, Los Angeles Region, from 2015
to May 2022.| | 2022| | 55  
Pierre Riel| | Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer,
International Division. Mr. Riel was Senior Vice President, Country Manager,
Canada, from 2019 to March 2022, and Senior Vice President, Eastern Canada
Region, from 2001 to 2019.| | 2022| | 60  
  
Item 1A--Risk Factors

The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations. We could also be affected by
additional risks that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and
globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we
currently consider to be immaterial. These Risk Factors should be carefully
reviewed in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and our consolidated financial
statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Report.

  

  

8

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Business and Operating Risks

  

We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our U.S. and Canadian
operations.

Our financial and operational performance is highly dependent on our U.S. and
Canadian operations, which comprised 87% and 84% of net sales and operating
income in 2023. Within the U.S., we are highly dependent on our California
operations, which comprised 27% of U.S. net sales in 2023. Our California
market, in general, has a larger percentage of higher volume warehouses as
compared to our other domestic markets. Any substantial slowing or sustained
decline in these operations could materially adversely affect our business and
financial results. Declines in financial performance of our U.S. operations,
particularly in California, and our Canadian operations could arise from,
among other things: slow growth or declines in comparable warehouse sales
(comparable sales); negative trends in operating expenses, including increased
labor, healthcare and energy costs; failing to meet targets for warehouse
openings; cannibalizing existing locations with new warehouses; shifts in
sales mix toward lower gross margin products; changes or uncertainties in
economic conditions in our markets, including higher levels of unemployment
and depressed home values; and failing to consistently provide high quality
and innovative new products.

We may be unsuccessful implementing our growth strategy, including expanding
our business in existing markets and new markets, and integrating
acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Our growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to acquire property and build
or lease new warehouses and depots. We compete with other retailers and
businesses for suitable locations. Local land use and other regulations
restricting the construction and operation of our warehouses and depots, as
well as local community actions opposed to the location of our warehouses or
depots at specific sites and the adoption of local laws restricting our
operations and environmental regulations, may impact our ability to find
suitable locations and increase the cost of sites and of constructing, leasing
and operating warehouses and depots. We also may have difficulty negotiating
leases or purchase agreements on acceptable terms. In addition, certain
jurisdictions have enacted or proposed laws and regulations that would prevent
or restrict the operation or expansion plans of certain large retailers and
warehouse clubs, including us. Failure to effectively manage these and other
similar factors may affect our ability to timely build or lease and operate
new warehouses and depots, which could have a material adverse effect on our
future growth and profitability.

We seek to expand in existing markets to attain a greater overall market
share. A new warehouse may draw members away from our existing warehouses and
adversely affect their comparable sales performance, member traffic, and
profitability.

We intend to continue to open warehouses in new markets. Associated risks
include difficulties in attracting members due to a lack of familiarity with
us, attracting members of other wholesale club operators, our lesser
familiarity with local member preferences, and seasonal differences in the
market. Entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new
competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market
presence. We cannot ensure that new warehouses and new e-commerce websites
will be profitable and future profitability could be delayed or otherwise
materially adversely affected.

We have made and may continue to make investments and acquisitions to improve
the speed, accuracy and efficiency of our supply chains and delivery channels.
The effectiveness of these investments can be less predictable than opening
new locations and might not provide the anticipated benefits or desired rates
of return.

Our failure to maintain membership growth, loyalty and brand recognition could
adversely affect our results of operations.

9

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Membership loyalty and growth are essential to our business. The extent to
which we achieve growth in our membership base, increase the penetration of
Executive membership, and sustain high renewal rates materially influences our
profitability. Damage to our brands or reputation may negatively impact
comparable sales, diminish member trust, and reduce renewal rates and,
accordingly, net sales and membership fee revenue, negatively impacting our
results of operations.

We sell many products under our Kirkland Signature brand. Maintaining
consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of these
products is essential to developing and maintaining member loyalty. These
products also generally carry higher margins than national brand products and
represent a growing portion of our overall sales. If the Kirkland Signature
brand experiences a loss of member acceptance or confidence, our sales and
gross margin results could be adversely affected.

Disruptions in merchandise distribution or processing, packaging,
manufacturing, and other facilities could adversely affect sales and member
satisfaction.

We depend on the orderly operation of the merchandise receiving and
distribution process, primarily through our depots. We also rely upon
processing, packaging, manufacturing and other facilities to support our
business, which includes the production of certain private-label items.
Although we believe that our operations are efficient, disruptions due to
fires, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, pandemics or other extreme weather
conditions or catastrophic events, labor issues or other shipping problems may
result in delays in the production and delivery of merchandise to our
warehouses, which could adversely affect sales and the satisfaction of our
members. Our e-commerce operations depend heavily on third-party and in-house
logistics providers and is negatively affected when these providers are unable
to provide services in a timely fashion.

We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which
could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our
products and services, and our market share.

It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and
services that our members will desire. Our success depends, in part, on our
ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and consumer
preferences. Failure to identify timely or effectively respond to changing
consumer tastes, preferences (including those relating to environmental,
social and governance practices) and spending patterns could negatively affect
our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services,
and our market share. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends
and adjusting our purchases accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which
could result in additional markdowns, or we may experience out-of-stock
positions and delivery delays, which could result in higher costs, both of
which would reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse
effect on net sales, gross margin and operating income.

Availability and performance of our information technology (IT) systems are
vital to our business. Failure to successfully execute IT projects and have IT
systems available to our business would adversely impact our operations.

IT systems play a crucial role in conducting our business. These systems are
utilized to process a very high volume of transactions, conduct payment
transactions, track and value our inventory and produce reports critical for
making business decisions. Failure or disruption of these systems could have
an adverse impact on our ability to buy products and services from our
suppliers, produce goods in our manufacturing plants, move the products in an
efficient manner to our warehouses and sell products to our members. We are
undertaking large technology and IT transformation projects. The failure of
these projects could adversely impact our business plans and potentially
impair our day to day business operations. Given the high volume of
transactions we process, it is important that we build strong digital
resiliency to prevent disruption from events such as power outages, computer
and telecommunications failures, viruses, internal or external security
breaches, errors by employees, and catastrophic events such as fires,
earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes. Any debilitating failure of our
critical IT systems,

10

* * *

Table of Contents

  

data centers and backup systems would require significant investments in
resources to restore IT services and may cause serious impairment in our
business operations including loss of business services, increased cost of
moving merchandise and failure to provide service to our members. We are
currently making substantial investments in maintaining and enhancing our
digital resiliency and failure or delay in these projects could be costly and
harmful to our business. Failure to deliver IT transformation efforts
efficiently and effectively could result in the loss of our competitive
position and adversely impact our financial condition and results of
operations. Insufficient IT capacity could also impact our capacity for
timely, complete and accurate financial and non-financial reporting required
by law.

  

We are required to maintain the privacy and security of personal and business
information amidst multiplying threat landscapes and in compliance with
privacy and data protection regulations globally. Failure to do so could
damage our business, including our reputation with members, suppliers and
employees, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and become subject
to litigation and regulatory action.

Increased security threats and more sophisticated cyber misconduct pose a risk
to our systems, networks, products and services. We rely upon IT systems and
networks, some of which are managed by or belong to third parties, including
suppliers, partners, vendors, and service providers. Additionally, we collect,
store and process sensitive information relating to our business, members,
employees, and other third parties. Operating these IT systems and networks,
and processing and maintaining this data, in a secure manner, is critical to
our business operations and strategy. Increased remote work has also increased
the possible attack surfaces. Attempts to gain unauthorized access to systems,
networks and data, both ours and third parties with whom we work, are
increasing in frequency and sophistication, and in some cases, these attempts
are successful. Cybersecurity attacks may range from random attempts to
coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crimes and
advanced persistent threats. Phishing attacks have emerged as particularly
prominent, including as vectors for ransomware attacks, which have increased
in breadth and frequency. While we train our employees as part of our security
efforts, that training cannot be completely effective. These threats pose a
risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of our data. Our IT systems and networks, or those
managed by third parties such as cloud providers or suppliers that otherwise
host or have access to confidential information, periodically have
vulnerabilities, which may go unnoticed for a period of time. Our logging
capabilities, or the logging capabilities of third parties, are also not
always complete or sufficiently detailed, affecting our ability to fully
investigate and understand the scope of security events. While our
cybersecurity and compliance efforts seek to mitigate such risks, there can be
no guarantee that the actions and controls we and our third-party service
providers have implemented and are implementing, will be sufficient to protect
our systems, information or other property.

The potential impacts of a cybersecurity attack include reputational damage,
litigation, government enforcement actions, penalties, disruption to systems
and operations, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected
information, corruption of data, diminution in the value of our investment in
IT systems and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. This
could adversely affect our competitiveness, results of operations and
financial condition and, critically in light of our business model, loss of
member confidence. Further, the insurance coverage we maintain and
indemnification arrangements with third parties may be inadequate to cover
claims, costs, and liabilities relating to cybersecurity incidents. In
addition, data we collect, store and process is subject to a variety of U.S.
and international laws and regulations, such as the European Union's General
Data Protection Regulation, California Consumer Privacy Act, Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act, and other privacy and cybersecurity laws
across the various states and around the globe, which may carry significant
potential penalties for noncompliance.

  

We are subject to payment-related risks.

We accept payments using a variety of methods, including select credit and
debit cards, cash and checks, co-brand cardholder rebates, Executive member 2%
reward certificates, and our shop card. As we offer

11

* * *

Table of Contents

  

new payment options to our members, we may be subject to additional rules,
regulations, compliance requirements, and higher fraud losses. For certain
payment methods, we pay interchange and other related acceptance fees, along
with additional transaction processing fees. We rely on third parties to
provide payment transaction processing services for credit and debit cards and
our shop card. It could disrupt our business if these parties become unwilling
or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to fee
increases by these service providers.

We must comply with evolving payment card association and network operating
rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules
governing electronic funds transfers. For example, we are subject to Payment
Card Industry Data Security Standards, which contain compliance guidelines and
standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic
storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. If our
internal systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card re-
issuance costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our
ability to accept card payments from our members, and our business and
operating results could be adversely affected. Our failure to offer payment
methods desired by our members could create a competitive disadvantage.

We might sell products that cause illness or injury to our members, harm to
our reputation, and expose us to litigation.

If our merchandise, including food and prepared food products for human
consumption, drugs, children's products, pet products and durable goods, do
not meet or are perceived not to meet applicable safety or labeling standards
or our members' expectations, we could experience lost sales, increased costs,
litigation or reputational harm. The sale of these items involves the risk of
illness or injury to our members. Such illnesses or injuries could result from
tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage,
including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other
agents, or residues introduced during the growing, manufacturing, storage,
handling and transportation phases, or faulty design. Our suppliers are
generally contractually required to comply with product safety laws, and we
are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with safety
and other standards. While we are subject to governmental inspection and
regulations and work to comply in all material respects with applicable laws
and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption or use of our products
will not cause illness or injury or that we will not be subject to claims,
lawsuits, or government investigations relating to such matters, resulting in
costly product recalls and other liabilities that could adversely affect our
business and results of operations. Even if a product liability claim is
unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, negative publicity could adversely
affect our reputation with existing and potential members and our corporate
and brand image, and these effects could be long-term.

If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omnichannel
experience for our members, our results of operations could be adversely
impacted.

Omnichannel retailing is rapidly evolving, and we must keep pace with changing
member expectations and new developments by our competitors. Our members are
increasingly using mobile phones, tablets, computers, and other devices to
shop and to interact with us through social media. We are making investments
in our websites and mobile applications. If we are unable to make, improve, or
develop relevant member-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to
compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected.

Inability to attract, train and retain highly qualified employees could
adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our success depends on the continued contributions of our employees, including
members of our senior management and other key operations, IT, merchandising
and administrative personnel. Failure to identify and implement a succession
plan for senior management could negatively impact our business. We must
attract, train and retain a large and growing number of qualified employees,
while controlling related labor costs and maintaining our core values. Our
ability to control labor and benefit costs is subject to

12

* * *

Table of Contents

  

numerous internal and external factors, including regulatory changes,
prevailing wage rates, union relations and healthcare and other insurance
costs. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these
employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them.
There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly
qualified employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by our insurance.

Claims for employee health care benefits, workers' compensation, general
liability, property damage, directors' and officers' liability, vehicle
liability, inventory loss, and other exposures are funded predominantly
through self-insurance. Insurance coverage is maintained for certain risks to
limit exposures arising from very large losses. The types and amounts of
insurance may vary from time to time based on our decisions with respect to
risk retention and regulatory requirements. Significant claims or events,
regulatory changes, a substantial rise in costs of health care or costs to
maintain our insurance or the failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage
could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of
operations.

Although we maintain specific coverages for catastrophic property losses, we
still bear a significant portion of the risk of losses incurred as a result of
any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any warehouses, depots,
manufacturing or home office facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and
business interruption. Such losses could materially impact our cash flows and
results of operations.

Market and Other External Risks

We face strong competition from other retailers and warehouse club operators,
which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for members, employees,
sites, products and services and in other important respects with a wide range
of local, regional and national wholesalers and retailers, both in the United
States and in foreign countries, including other warehouse-club operators,
supermarkets, supercenters, online retailers, gasoline stations, hard
discounters, department and specialty stores and operators selling a single
category or narrow range of merchandise. Such retailers and warehouse club
operators compete vigorously and in a variety of ways, including pricing,
selection and availability, services, location, convenience, store hours, and
the attractiveness and ease of use of websites and mobile applications. The
evolution of retailing in online and mobile channels has improved the ability
of customers to comparison shop, which has enhanced competition. Some
competitors have greater financial resources and technology capabilities,
better access to merchandise, and greater market penetration than we do. Our
inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, changes in the
retail markets or customer expectations could result in lost market share and
negatively affect our financial results.

General economic factors, domestically and internationally, may adversely
affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Higher energy and gasoline costs, inflation, levels of unemployment,
healthcare costs, consumer debt levels, foreign-currency exchange rates,
unsettled financial markets, weaknesses in housing and real estate markets,
reduced consumer confidence, changes and uncertainties related to government
fiscal, monetary and tax policies including changes in interest rates, tax
rates, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions, sovereign debt crises,
pandemics and other health crises, and other economic factors could adversely
affect demand for our products and services, require a change in product mix,
or impact the cost of or ability to purchase inventory. Additionally, trade-
related actions in various countries, particularly China and the United
States, have affected the costs of some of our merchandise. The degree of our
exposure is dependent on (among other things) the type of goods, rates
imposed, and timing of the tariffs. The impact to our net sales and gross
margin is influenced in part by our merchandising and pricing strategies in
response to potential cost increases. Higher tariffs could adversely impact
our results.

13

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Prices of certain commodities, including gasoline and consumable goods used in
manufacturing and our warehouse retail operations, are historically volatile
and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and
international supply and demand, inflationary pressures, labor costs,
competition, market speculation, government regulations, taxes and periodic
delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices and our
ability and desire to pass them through to our members may affect our sales
and profit margins. These factors could also increase our merchandise costs
and selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely
affect our operations and financial results. General economic conditions can
also be affected by events like the outbreak of hostilities, including but not
limited to the Ukraine conflict, or acts of terrorism.

Inflationary factors such as increases in merchandise costs may adversely
affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not
be able to adjust prices to sufficiently offset the effect of cost increases
without negatively impacting consumer demand.

Suppliers may be unable to timely supply us with quality merchandise at
competitive prices or may fail to adhere to our high standards, resulting in
adverse effects on our business, merchandise inventories, sales, and profit
margins.

We depend heavily on our ability to purchase quality merchandise in sufficient
quantities at competitive prices. As the quantities we require continue to
grow, we have no assurances of continued supply, appropriate pricing or access
to new products, and any supplier has the ability to change the terms upon
which they sell to us or discontinue selling to us. Member demands may lead to
out-of-stock positions causing a loss of sales and profits.

We buy from numerous domestic and foreign suppliers and importers. Our
inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of
key suppliers could negatively affect us. We may not be able to develop
relationships with new suppliers, and products from alternative sources, if
any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive. Because of our efforts to
adhere to high-quality standards for which available supply may be limited,
particularly for certain food items, the large volumes we demand may not be
consistently available. Our efforts to secure supply could lead to commitments
that prove to be unsuccessful in the short and long-term.

Our suppliers (and those they depend upon for materials and services) are
subject to risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities,
financial liquidity, natural disasters, extreme weather conditions, public
health emergencies, supply constraints and general economic and political
conditions and other risks similar to those we face that could limit their
ability to timely provide us with acceptable merchandise. One or more of our
suppliers might not adhere to our quality control, packaging, legal,
regulatory, labor, environmental or animal welfare standards. These
deficiencies may delay or preclude delivery of merchandise to us and might not
be identified before we sell such merchandise to our members. This failure
could lead to recalls and litigation and otherwise damage our reputation and
our brands, increase costs, and otherwise adversely impact our business.

Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our results of
operations.

During 2023, our international operations, including Canada, generated 27% and
34% of our net sales and operating income. Our international operations have
accounted for an increasing portion of our warehouses, and we plan to continue
international growth. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we
translate the financial statements of our international operations from local
currencies into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. Future fluctuations
in exchange rates that are unfavorable to us may adversely affect the
financial performance of our Canadian and Other International operations and
have a corresponding adverse period-over-period effect on our results of
operations. As we continue to expand internationally, our exposure to
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may increase.

A portion of the products we purchase is paid for in a currency other than the
local currency of the country in which the goods are sold. Currency
fluctuations may increase our merchandise costs and may not be passed on to
members and thus may adversely affect our results of operations.

14

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Natural disasters, extreme weather conditions, or other catastrophic events
could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of
operations.

Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, including those impacted by
climate change, such as hurricanes, typhoons, floods, earthquakes, wildfires,
droughts; acts of terrorism or violence, including active shooter situations;
and energy shortages; particularly in California or Washington state, where
our centralized operating systems and administrative personnel are located,
could negatively affect our operations and financial performance. Such events
could result in physical damage to our properties, limitations on store
operating hours, less frequent visits by members to physical locations, the
temporary closure of warehouses, depots, manufacturing or home office
facilities, the temporary lack of an adequate work force, disruptions to our
IT systems, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products
from some local or overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the
transport of goods to or from overseas, delays in the delivery of goods to our
warehouses or depots, and the temporary reduction in the availability of
products in our warehouses. These events could also reduce demand for our
products or make it difficult or impossible to procure products. We may be
required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

Pandemics and other health crises, including COVID-19, could affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations in many respects.

The emergence, severity, magnitude and duration of global or regional health
crises are uncertain and difficult to predict. A pandemic, such as COVID-19,
could affect certain business operations, demand for our products and
services, in-stock positions, costs of doing business, availability of labor,
access to inventory, supply chain operations, our ability to predict future
performance, exposure to litigation, and our financial performance, among
other things. Other factors and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:

  

•The severity and duration of pandemics;

•Evolving macroeconomic factors, including general economic uncertainty,
unemployment rates, and recessionary pressures;

•Changes in labor markets affecting us and our suppliers;

•Unknown consequences on our business performance and initiatives stemming
from the substantial investment of time and other resources to the pandemic
response;

•The pace of post-pandemic recovery;

•The long-term impact of the pandemic on our business, including consumer
behaviors; and

•Disruption and volatility within the financial and credit markets.

Factors associated with climate change could adversely affect our business.

We use natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline, and electricity in our distribution
and warehouse operations. Government regulations limiting carbon dioxide and
other greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental restrictions may
increase compliance and merchandise costs, and other regulation affecting
energy inputs could materially affect our profitability. As the economy
transitions to lower carbon intensity we cannot guarantee that we will make
adequate investments or successfully implement strategies that will
effectively achieve our climate-related goals, which could lead to negative
perceptions among members and other stakeholders and result in reputational
harm. Climate change, extreme weather conditions, wildfires, droughts and
rising sea levels could affect our ability to procure commodities at costs and
in quantities we currently experience.

We also sell a substantial amount of gasoline, the demand for which could be
impacted by concerns about climate change and increased regulations. More
stringent fuel economy standards, changing public policies aimed at increasing
the adoption of zero-emission and alternative fuel vehicles and other
regulations related to climate change, and evolving consumer preferences will
affect our future operations and will adversely impact certain elements of our
profitability and require significant capital expenditures.

15

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Failure to meet financial market expectations could adversely affect the
market price and volatility of our stock.

We believe that the price of our stock currently reflects high market
expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet or delay in
meeting these expectations, including our warehouse and e-commerce comparable
sales growth rates, membership renewal rates, new member sign-ups, gross
margin, earnings, earnings per share, new warehouse openings, or dividend or
stock repurchase policies could cause the price of our stock to decline.

Legal and Regulatory Risks

We are subject to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting,
regulatory, political and economic factors specific to the countries or
regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

At the end of 2023, we operated 270 warehouses outside of the U.S. (31% of all
warehouse locations), and we plan to continue expanding our international
operations. Future operating results internationally could be negatively
affected by a variety of factors, many similar to those we face in the U.S.,
certain of which are beyond our control. These factors include political and
economic conditions, regulatory constraints, currency regulations, policy
changes, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we
operate, now or in the future. Other factors that may impact international
operations include foreign trade (including tariffs and trade sanctions),
monetary and fiscal policies and the laws and regulations of the U.S. and
foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated
with having major facilities in locations which have been historically less
stable than the U.S. Risks inherent in international operations also include,
among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations,
adverse tax consequences, and difficulty in enforcing intellectual property
rights. New reporting obligations globally are increasing the cost and
complexity of doing business.

Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and
judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could
significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Accounting principles and related pronouncements, implementation guidelines,
and interpretations we apply to a wide range of matters that are relevant to
our business, including self-insurance liabilities, are highly complex and
involve subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management.
Changes in rules or interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions,
estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our
reported or expected financial performance and have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements.

We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and otherwise.

Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management assessments
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and
disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to maintain effective
internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and
procedures, our ability to record, process and report financial information
accurately and to prepare financial statements within required time periods
could be adversely affected, which could subject us to litigation or
investigations requiring management resources and payment of legal and other
expenses, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements
and adversely impact our stock price. Uncertainties around our developing
systems concerning controls for non-financial reporting also create risks.

Changes in tax rates, new U.S. or foreign tax legislation, and exposure to
additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition and
results of operations.

We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection and remittance
obligations in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, at
any point in time, we may be under examination for value

16

* * *

Table of Contents

  

added, sales-based, payroll, product, import or other non-income taxes. We may
recognize additional tax expense, be subject to additional tax liabilities, or
incur losses and penalties, due to changes in laws, regulations,
administrative practices, principles, assessments by authorities and
interpretations related to tax, including tax rules in various jurisdictions.
We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the
countries in which we operate. As tax rates vary among countries, a change in
earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could
result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Additionally,
changes in the enacted tax rates or adverse outcomes in tax audits, including
transfer pricing disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

Changes in or failure to comply with regulations relating to the use, storage,
discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous and non-hazardous
wastes and other environmental matters (such as recycling and extended
producer responsibility requirements) could adversely impact our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

We are subject to a wide and increasingly broad array of federal, state,
regional, local and international laws and regulations relating to the use,
storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous and non-
hazardous wastes and other environmental matters. Failure to comply with these
laws could result in harm to our members, employees or others, significant
costs to satisfy environmental compliance, remediation or compensatory
requirements, or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on
operations by governmental agencies or courts that could adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

Operations at our facilities require the treatment and disposal of wastewater,
stormwater and agricultural and food processing wastes, the use and
maintenance of refrigeration systems, including ammonia-based chillers, noise,
odor and dust management, the operation of mechanized processing equipment,
and other operations that potentially could affect the environment and public
health and safety. Failure to comply with current and future environmental,
health and safety standards could result in the imposition of fines and
penalties, illness or injury of our employees, and claims or lawsuits related
to such illnesses or injuries, and temporary closures or limits on the
operations of facilities.

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits and some of these
outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

Our business requires compliance with many laws and regulations. Failure to
achieve compliance could subject us to lawsuits and other proceedings and lead
to damage awards, fines, penalties, and remediation costs. We are or may
become involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits, including grand
jury investigations, government and agency investigations, and consumer,
employment, tort, unclaimed property laws, and other litigation. We cannot
predict with certainty the outcomes of these proceedings and other
contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings
commenced by governmental authorities. The outcome of some of these
proceedings, audits, unclaimed property laws, and other contingencies could
require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively
affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money,
adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.
Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve
significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources.

Item 1B--Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2--Properties

Warehouse Properties

At September 3, 2023, we operated 861 membership warehouses:

17

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Own Land  
and Building| |

Lease Land

and/or

Building(1)

| | Total  
United States and Puerto Rico| 477 | | | 114 | | | 591 |  
Canada| 90 | | | 17 | | | 107 |  
Other International| 110 | | | 53 | | | 163 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Total| 677 | | | 184 | | | 861 |  
  
_______________

(1)132 of the 184 leases are land-only leases, where Costco owns the building.

At the end of 2023, our warehouses contained approximately 126.3 million
square feet of operating floor space: 87.6 million in the U.S.; 15.3 million
in Canada; and 23.4 million in Other International. Total square feet
associated with distribution and logistics facilities were approximately 33.1
million. Additionally, we operate various processing, packaging, manufacturing
and other facilities to support our business, which includes the production of
certain private-label items.

  

Item 3--Legal Proceedings

See discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 10 to the consolidated financial
statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

Item 4--Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

PART II

Item 5--Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information and Dividend Policy

Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol
"COST." On October 3, 2023, we had 10,331 stockholders of record.

Payment of dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors.
Factors considered in determining dividends include our profitability and
expected capital needs. Subject to these qualifications, we presently expect
to continue to pay dividends on a quarterly basis.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following table sets forth information on our common stock repurchase
activity for the fourth quarter of 2023 (dollars in millions, except per share
data):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Period| | | Total Number of Shares Purchased| | Average Price Paid per Share|
|

Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Program(1)

| | Maximum Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Purchased under the Program  
May 8--June 4, 2023| | 107,000 | | | $| 498.28 | | | 107,000 | | | $| 3,740 |  
June 5--July 2, 2023| | 102,000 | | | 523.05 | | | 102,000 | | | 3,687 |  
July 3--July 30, 2023| | 97,000 | | | 548.20 | | | 97,000 | | | 3,634 |  
July 31--September 3, 2023| | 127,000 | | | 550.58 | | | 127,000 | | | 3,563 |  
Total fourth quarter| | 433,000 | | | $| 530.67 | | | 433,000 | | |  
  
_______________

(1)The repurchase program is conducted under a $4,000 authorization approved
by our Board of Directors in January 2023, which expires in January 2027. This
authorization revoked previously authorized but unused amounts, totaling
$2,568.

18

* * *

Table of Contents

  

  

Performance Graph

The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return assuming
reinvestment of dividends on an investment of $100 in Costco common stock, S&P
500 Index, S&P Retail Select Index, and the previously selected S&P 500 Retail
Index over the five years from September 2, 2018, through September 3, 2023.
The S&P Retail Select Index will prospectively replace in the graph the S&P
500 Retail Index to show a broader representation of industry performance and
a broader index of peers.

![260](cost-20230903_g1.jpg)

The following graph provides information concerning average sales per
warehouse over a 10-year period.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Average Sales Per Warehouse*  
(Sales In Millions)  
Year Opened| # of Whses| | | | | | | | | |  
2023| 23| | | | | | | | | | $| 151 |  
2022| 23| | | | | | | | | $| 150 | | 158 |  
2021| 20| | | | | | | | $| 140 | | 158 | | 172 |  
2020| 13| | | | | | | $| 132 | | 152 | | 184 | | 193 |  
2019| 20| | | | | | $| 129 | | 138 | | 172 | | 208 | | 216 |  
2018| 21| | | | | $| 116 | | 119 | | 141 | | 172 | | 202 | | 214 |  
2017| 26| | | | $| 121 | | 142 | | 158 | | 176 | | 206 | | 237 | | 247 |  
2016| 29| | | $| 87 | | 97 | | 118 | | 131 | | 145 | | 173 | | 204 | | 212 |  
2015| 23| | $| 83 | | 85 | | 94 | | 112 | | 122 | | 136 | | 163 | | 189 | |
199 |  
2014 & Before| 663| $| 164 | | 165 | | 165 | | 170 | | 184 | | 191 | | 201 | |
228 | | 259 | | 268 |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Totals| 861| $| 164 | | $| 162 | | $| 159 | | $| 163 | | $| 176 | | $| 182 | |
$| 192 | | $| 217 | | $| 245 | | $| 252 |  
| | 2014| 2015| 2016| 2017| 2018| 2019| 2020| 2021| 2022| 2023  
| | Fiscal Year  
*First year sales annualized.  
2017 and 2023 were 53-week fiscal years but have been normalized for purposes
of comparability  
  
  

Item 6--Reserved

19

* * *

Table of Contents

  

  

  

Item 7--Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and
Results of Operations (amounts in millions, except per share, share,
membership fee, and warehouse count data)

  

The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to promote understanding of the
results of operations and financial condition. MD&A is provided as a
supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated
financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part
II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). This section generally discusses the results of
operations for 2023 compared to 2022. For discussion related to the results of
operations and changes in financial condition for 2022 compared to 2021 refer
to Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations in our fiscal year 2022 Form 10-K, which
was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on
October 5, 2022.

Overview

We believe that the most important driver of our profitability is increasing
net sales, particularly comparable sales. Net sales includes our core
merchandise categories (foods and sundries, non-foods, and fresh foods),
warehouse ancillary (gasoline, pharmacy, optical, food court, hearing aids,
and tire installation) and other businesses (e-commerce, business centers,
travel and other). Comparable sales is defined as net sales from warehouses
open for more than one year, including remodels, relocations and expansions,
and sales related to e-commerce websites operating for more than one year. The
measure is intended as supplemental information and is not a substitute for
net sales presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (U.S. GAAP). Comparable sales growth is achieved through increasing
shopping frequency from new and existing members and the amount they spend on
each visit (average ticket). Sales comparisons can also be particularly
influenced by certain factors that are beyond our control: fluctuations in
currency exchange rates (with respect to our international operations);
inflation or deflation and changes in the cost of gasoline and associated
competitive conditions. The higher our comparable sales exclusive of these
items, the more we can leverage our SG&A expenses, reducing them as a
percentage of sales and enhancing profitability. Generating comparable sales
growth is foremost a question of making available to our members the right
merchandise at the right prices, a skill that we believe we have repeatedly
demonstrated over the long-term. Another substantial factor in net sales
growth is the health of the economies in which we do business, including the
effects of inflation or deflation, especially the United States. Net sales
growth and gross margins are also impacted by our competition, which is
vigorous and widespread, across a wide range of global, national and regional
wholesalers and retailers, including those with e-commerce operations. While
we cannot control or reliably predict general economic health or changes in
competition, we believe that we have been successful historically in adapting
our business to these changes, such as through adjustments to our pricing and
merchandise mix, including increasing the penetration of our private-label
items, and through online offerings.

Our philosophy is to provide our members with quality goods and services at
competitive prices. We do not focus in the short-term on maximizing prices
charged, but instead seek to maintain what we believe is a perception among
our members of our "pricing authority" - consistently providing the most
competitive values. Merchandise costs in 2023 continued to be impacted by
inflation, however at a lower rate than what we experienced in 2022. The
impact to our net sales and gross margin is influenced in part by our
merchandising and pricing strategies in response to cost increases. Those
strategies can include, but are not limited to, working with our suppliers to
share in absorbing cost increases, earlier-than-usual purchasing and in
greater volumes, as well as passing cost increases on to our members. Our
investments in merchandise pricing may include reducing prices on merchandise
to drive sales or meet competition and holding prices steady despite cost
increases instead of passing the increases on to our members, all negatively
impacting gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of net sales (gross
margin percentage).

20

* * *

Table of Contents

  

We believe our gasoline business enhances traffic in our warehouses, but it
generally has a lower gross margin percentage and lower SG&A expense, relative
to our non-gasoline businesses. A higher penetration of gasoline sales will
generally lower our gross margin percentage. Rapidly changing gasoline prices
may significantly impact our near-term net sales growth. Generally, rising
gasoline prices benefit net sales growth which, given the higher sales base,
negatively impacts our gross margin percentage but decreases our SG&A expenses
as a percentage of net sales. A decline in gasoline prices has the inverse
effect.

Government actions in various countries relating to tariffs, particularly
China and the United States, have affected the costs of some of our
merchandise. The degree of our exposure is dependent on (among other things)
the type of goods, rates imposed, and timing of the tariffs. Higher tariffs
could adversely impact our results.

We also achieve net sales growth by opening new warehouses. As our warehouse
base grows, available and desirable sites become more difficult to secure, and
square footage growth becomes a comparatively less substantial component of
growth. The negative aspects of such growth, however, including lower initial
operating profitability relative to existing warehouses and cannibalization of
sales at existing warehouses when openings occur in existing markets, are
continuing to decline in significance as they relate to the results of our
total operations. Our rate of square footage growth is generally higher in
foreign markets, due to the smaller base in those markets, and we expect that
to continue. Our e-commerce business, domestically and internationally,
generally has a lower gross margin percentage than our warehouse operations.

The membership format is an integral part of our business and has a
significant effect on our profitability. This format is designed to reinforce
member loyalty and provide continuing fee revenue. The extent to which we
achieve growth in our membership base, increase the penetration of our
Executive members, and sustain high renewal rates materially influences our
profitability. Our paid-membership growth rate may be adversely impacted when
warehouse openings occur in existing markets as compared to new markets.

Our financial performance depends heavily on controlling costs. While we
believe that we have achieved successes in this area, some significant costs
are partially outside our control, particularly health care and utility
expenses. With respect to the compensation of our employees, our philosophy is
not to seek to minimize their wages and benefits. Rather, we believe that
achieving our longer-term objectives of reducing employee turnover and
enhancing employee satisfaction requires maintaining compensation levels that
are better than the industry average for much of our workforce. This may cause
us, for example, to absorb costs that other employers might seek to pass
through to their workforces. Because our business operates on very low
margins, modest changes in various items in the consolidated statements of
income, particularly merchandise costs and SG&A expenses, can have substantial
impacts on net income.

Our operating model is generally the same across our U.S., Canadian, and Other
International operating segments (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial
statements included in Item 8 of this Report). Certain operations in the Other
International segment have relatively higher rates of square footage growth,
lower wage and benefit costs as a percentage of sales, less or no direct
membership warehouse competition, or lack e-commerce or business delivery.

In discussions of our consolidated operating results, we refer to the impact
of changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which are
differences between the foreign-exchange rates we use to convert the financial
results of our international operations from local currencies into U.S.
dollars. This impact of foreign-exchange rate changes is calculated based on
the difference between the current and prior period's currency exchange rates.
The impact of changes in gasoline prices on net sales is calculated based on
the difference between the current and prior period's average price per gallon
sold. Results expressed excluding the impacts of foreign exchange and gasoline
prices should be reviewed in conjunction with results reported in accordance
with U.S. GAAP.

21

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to August 31\. References to 2023
relate to the 53-week fiscal year ended September 3, 2023. References to 2022
and 2021 relate to the 52-week fiscal years ended August 28, 2022, and August
29, 2021. Certain percentages presented are calculated using actual results
prior to rounding. Unless otherwise noted, references to net income relate to
net income attributable to Costco.

Highlights for 2023 versus 2022 include:

•We opened 26 new warehouses, including three relocations: 13 net new in the
U.S. and 10 new in our Other International segment. We opened the same number
of new warehouses, including relocations, in 2022;

•Net sales increased 7% to $237,710, driven by a 3% increase in comparable
sales, sales at new warehouses opened in 2022 and 2023, and the benefit of one
additional week of sales in 2023;

•Membership fee revenue increased 8% to $4,580, driven by new member sign-ups,
upgrades to Executive membership, and one additional week of membership fees
in 2023;

•Gross margin percentage increased nine basis points, driven primarily by a
smaller LIFO charge in 2023 compared to 2022 and our core merchandise
categories. This was partially offset by charges of $391, predominantly
related to the discontinuation of our charter shipping activities;

•SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 20 basis points, due to
increased costs in warehouse operations and other businesses, primarily wage
increases effective in March and July 2022, and March 2023, as well as lower
sales growth;

•The effective tax rate in 2023 was 25.9%, compared to 24.6% in 2022;

•Net income increased 8% to $6,292, or $14.16 per diluted share compared to
$5,844, or $13.14 per diluted share in 2022;

•In January 2023, the Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase
program in the amount of $4,000; and

•In April 2023, the Board of Directors approved a 13% increase in the
quarterly cash dividend.

22

* * *

Table of Contents

  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Net Sales

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
  
Net Sales

| $| 237,710| | $| 222,730| | $| 192,052  
  
Changes in net sales:

| | | | |  
U.S.| 7 | %| | 17 | %| | 16 | %  
Canada| 4 | %| | 16 | %| | 22 | %  
Other International| 9 | %| | 10 | %| | 23 | %  
Total Company| 7 | %| | 16 | %| | 18 | %  
  
Changes in comparable sales:

| | | | |  
U.S.| 3 | %| | 16 | %| | 15 | %  
Canada| 2 | %| | 15 | %| | 20 | %  
Other International| 3 | %| | 7 | %| | 19 | %  
Total Company| 3 | %| | 14 | %| | 16 | %  
E-commerce| (6)| %| | 10 | %| | 44 | %  
  
Changes in comparable sales excluding the impact of changes in foreign-
currency and gasoline prices:

| | | | |  
U.S.| 4 | %| | 10 | %| | 14 | %  
Canada| 8 | %| | 12 | %| | 12 | %  
Other International| 8 | %| | 10 | %| | 13 | %  
Total Company| 5 | %| | 11 | %| | 13 | %  
E-commerce| (5)| %| | 10 | %| | 43 | %  
  
Net Sales

Net sales increased $14,980 or 7% during 2023. The improvement was
attributable to an increase in comparable sales of 3%, sales at new warehouses
opened in 2022 and 2023, and one additional week of sales in 2023. Sales
increased $12,761, or 7% in core merchandise categories, led by foods and
sundries and fresh foods; while non-foods decreased. Sales increased $2,219,
or 5% in warehouse ancillary and other businesses, led by pharmacy, food
court, and travel.

During 2023, changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar
negatively impacted net sales by approximately $3,484, 156 basis points,
compared to 2022, attributable to our Canadian and Other International
operations. The volume of gasoline sold increased approximately 7%, positively
impacting net sales by $2,148, or 96 basis points. Lower gasoline prices
negatively impacted net sales by $1,592, or 71 basis points, compared to 2022,
with a 6% decrease in the average price per gallon.

Comparable Sales

Comparable sales increased 3% during 2023 and were positively impacted by
increases in shopping frequency, partially offset by a decrease in average
ticket.

Membership Fees

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Membership fees| $| 4,580| | $| 4,224| | $| 3,877  
Membership fees increase| 8 | %| | 9 | %| | 9 | %  
  
23

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Membership fee revenue increased 8% in 2023, driven by new member sign-ups,
upgrades to Executive membership, and the benefit of an additional week.
Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted
membership fees by $76 compared to 2022. At the end of 2023, our member
renewal rates were 92.7% in the U.S. and Canada and 90.4% worldwide. More
members auto renewing and higher penetration of Executive members benefit
renewal rates. Our renewal rate, which excludes affiliates of Business
members, is a trailing calculation that captures renewals during the period
seven to eighteen months prior to the reporting date.

We account for membership fee revenue on a deferred basis, recognized ratably
over the one-year membership period.

Gross Margin

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Net sales| $| 237,710| | $| 222,730| | $| 192,052  
Less merchandise costs| 212,586| | 199,382| | 170,684  
Gross margin| $| 25,124| | $| 23,348| | $| 21,368  
Gross margin percentage| 10.57 | %| | 10.48 | %| | 11.13 | %  
  
Gross margin percentage increased nine basis points compared to 2022.
Excluding the impact of gasoline price deflation on net sales, gross margin
was 10.50%, an increase of two basis points. This two basis point increase was
positively impacted by: 18 basis points due to a smaller LIFO charge in 2023
compared to 2022, and seven basis points due to core merchandise categories,
predominantly foods and sundries. These were offset by: 16 basis points due to
the downsizing and then discontinuation of our charter shipping activities;
four basis points due to increased 2% rewards; and three basis points due to
warehouse ancillary and other businesses, predominantly e-commerce, partially
offset by gasoline and business centers. Changes in foreign currencies
relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted gross margin by approximately
$349, compared to 2022, attributable to our Canadian and Other International
Operations.

The gross margin in core merchandise categories, when expressed as a
percentage of core merchandise sales (rather than total net sales), increased
two basis points, driven by foods and sundries and non-foods, partially offset
by fresh foods. This measure eliminates the impact of changes in sales
penetration and gross margins from our warehouse ancillary and other
businesses.

Gross margin on a segment basis, when expressed as a percentage of the
segment's own sales and excluding the impact of changes in gasoline prices on
net sales (segment gross margin percentage), increased in our U.S. segment,
due to a smaller LIFO charge and increases in core merchandise categories,
primarily foods and sundries, partially offset by the charges related to the
discontinuation of our charter shipping activities discussed above and
warehouse ancillary and other businesses. Gross margin percentage increased in
our Canada segment, attributable to increases in core merchandise categories
and warehouse ancillary and other businesses. Our Other International gross
margin percentage decreased, largely due to decreases in core merchandise
categories, partially offset by warehouse ancillary and other businesses. All
segments were negatively impacted by increased 2% rewards.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
SG&A expenses| $| 21,590| | $| 19,779| | $| 18,537  
SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales| 9.08 | %| | 8.88 | %| | 9.65 | %  
  
24

* * *

Table of Contents

  

  

SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 20 basis points compared
to 2022. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales excluding the impact of
gasoline price deflation was 9.02%, an increase of 14 basis points. The
comparison to last year was negatively impacted by 16 basis points in
warehouse operations and other businesses, largely driven by wage increases
effective in March and July 2022, and March 2023, as well as lower sales
growth. Central operating costs were also higher by six basis points. SG&A was
positively impacted by eight basis points due to the prior year's write-off of
information technology assets and a charge related to granting our employees
additional vacation. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar
decreased SG&A expenses by approximately $281 compared to 2022, attributable
to our Canadian and Other International Operations.

Interest Expense

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Interest expense| $| 160 | | | $| 158 | | | $| 171 |  
  
Interest expense is primarily related to Senior Notes and financing leases.
For more information on our debt arrangements, refer to the consolidated
financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

Interest Income and Other, Net

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Interest income| $| 470 | | | $| 61 | | | $| 41 |  
Foreign-currency transaction gains, net| 29 | | | 106 | | | 56 |  
Other, net| 34 | | | 38 | | | 46 |  
Interest income and other, net| $| 533 | | | $| 205 | | | $| 143 |  
  
The increase in interest income in 2023 was due to higher global interest
rates and higher average cash and investment balances. Foreign-currency
transaction gains, net include revaluation or settlement of monetary assets
and liabilities by our Canadian and Other International operations and mark-
to-market adjustments for forward foreign-exchange contracts. See Derivatives
and Foreign Currency sections in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

Provision for Income Taxes

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Provision for income taxes| $| 2,195 | | | $| 1,925 | | | $| 1,601 |  
Effective tax rate| 25.9 | %| | 24.6 | %| | 24.0 | %  
  
The effective tax rate for 2023 was impacted by net discrete tax benefits of
$62, primarily due to excess tax benefits related to stock compensation.
Excluding discrete net tax benefits, the tax rate was 26.6%.

The effective tax rate for 2022 was impacted by net discrete tax benefits of
$130, primarily due to excess tax benefits related to stock compensation.
Excluding discrete net tax benefits, the tax rate was 26.2%.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The following table summarizes our significant sources and uses of cash and
cash equivalents:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Net cash provided by operating activities| $| 11,068 | | | $| 7,392 | | | $|
8,958 |  
Net cash used in investing activities| (4,972)| | | (3,915)| | | (3,535)|  
Net cash used in financing activities| (2,614)| | | (4,283)| | | (6,488)|  
| | | | |  
  
25

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, cash and cash
equivalents, and short-term investments. Cash and cash equivalents and short-
term investments were $15,234 and $11,049 at September 3, 2023, and August 28,
2022. Of these balances, unsettled credit and debit card receivables
represented $2,282 and $2,010. These receivables generally settle within four
days. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted cash and cash equivalents
positively by $15 and $46 in 2023 and 2021, and negatively by $249 in 2022.

Material contractual obligations arising in the normal course of business
primarily consist of purchase obligations, long-term debt and related interest
payments, leases, and construction and land purchase obligations. See Notes 4
and 5 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this
Report for amounts outstanding on September 3, 2023, related to debt and
leases.

Purchase obligations consist of contracts primarily related to merchandise,
equipment, and third-party services, the majority of which are due in the next
12 months. Construction and land-purchase obligations consist of contracts
primarily related to the development and opening of new and relocated
warehouses, the majority of which (other than leases) are due in the next 12
months.

Management believes that our cash and investment position and operating cash
flows, with capacity under existing and available credit agreements, will be
sufficient to meet our liquidity and capital requirements for the foreseeable
future. We believe that our U.S. current and projected asset position is
sufficient to meet our U.S. liquidity requirements.

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $11,068 in 2023, compared to
$7,392 in 2022. Our cash flow provided by operations is primarily from net
sales and membership fees. Cash flow used in operations generally consists of
payments to merchandise suppliers, warehouse operating costs, including
payroll and employee benefits, utilities, and credit and debit card processing
fees. Cash used in operations also includes payments for income taxes. Changes
in our net investment in merchandise inventories (the difference between
merchandise inventories and accounts payable) is impacted by several factors,
including inventory levels and turnover, the forward deployment of inventory
to accelerate delivery times, payment terms with suppliers, and early payments
to obtain discounts.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities totaled $4,972 in 2023, compared to
$3,915 in 2022, and is primarily related to capital expenditures. Net cash
flows from investing activities also includes purchases and maturities of
short-term investments.

Capital Expenditures

Our primary requirements for capital are acquiring land, buildings, and
equipment for new and remodeled warehouses. Capital is also required for
information systems, manufacturing and distribution facilities, initial
warehouse operations, and working capital. In 2023, we spent $4,323 on capital
expenditures, and it is our current intention to spend approximately $4,400 to
$4,600 during fiscal 2024. These expenditures are expected to be financed with
cash from operations, existing cash and cash equivalents, and short-term
investments. We opened 26 new warehouses, including three relocations, in
2023, and plan to open up to 28 additional new warehouses, including one
relocation, in 2024. There can be no assurance that current expectations will
be realized, and plans are subject to change upon further review of our
capital expenditure needs and the economic environment.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities totaled $2,614 in 2023, compared to
$4,283 in 2022. Cash flows used in financing activities primarily related to
the payment of dividends, repurchases of common stock, and withholding taxes
on stock-based awards. In 2022, cash flow used in financing activities
included

26

* * *

Table of Contents

  

payments to our former joint-venture partner for a dividend and the purchase
of their equity interest in Taiwan, totaling $1,050 in the aggregate, and
repayments of our 2.300% Senior Notes.

Stock Repurchase Programs

On January 19, 2023, the Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase
program in the amount of $4,000, which expires in January 2027. During 2023
and 2022, we repurchased 1,341,000 and 863,000 shares of common stock, at
average prices of $504.68 and $511.46, totaling approximately $677 and $442.
These amounts may differ from the accompanying consolidated statements of cash
flows due to changes in unsettled repurchases at the end of each fiscal year.
Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open
market or in block purchases, pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1.
Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business
Corporation Act. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our
approved plan was $3,563 at the end of 2023.

Dividends

Cash dividends declared in 2023 totaled $3.84 per share, as compared to $3.38
per share in 2022. In April 2023, the Board of Directors increased our
quarterly cash dividend from $0.90 to $1.02 per share.

Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs

We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate
purposes. At September 3, 2023, we had borrowing capacity under these
facilities of $1,234. Our international operations maintain $756 of this
capacity under bank credit facilities, of which $167 is guaranteed by the
Company. Short-term borrowings outstanding under the bank credit facilities,
which are included in other current liabilities on the consolidated balance
sheets, were immaterial at the end of 2023 and 2022.

The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and standby
letters of credit, totaling $217. The outstanding commitments under these
facilities at the end of 2023 totaled $182, most of which were standby letters
of credit that do not expire or have expiration dates within one year. The
bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, most within one year,
and we generally intend to renew these facilities. The amount of borrowings
available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the
amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In the opinion of management, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that
have had or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect
on our financial condition or financial statements.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with
U.S. GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We base
our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to
be reasonable, and we continue to review and evaluate these estimates. For
further information on significant accounting policies, see discussion in Note
1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

Insurance/Self-insurance Liabilities

Claims for employee health-care benefits, workers' compensation, general
liability, property damage, directors' and officers' liability, vehicle
liability, inventory loss, and other exposures are funded predominantly
through self-insurance. Insurance coverage is maintained for certain risks to
seek to limit exposures arising from very large losses. We use various risk
management mechanisms, including a

27

* * *

Table of Contents

  

wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary, and participate in a reinsurance
program. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not
discounted and are estimated using historical claims experience, demographic
factors, severity factors, and other actuarial assumptions. The costs of
claims are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate as a result of inflation
rates, regulatory or legal changes, and unforeseen developments in claims.
While we believe our estimates are reasonable, actual claims and costs could
differ significantly from recorded liabilities. Historically, adjustments to
our estimates have not been material.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

We do not expect that any recently issued accounting pronouncements will have
a material effect on our financial statements.

Item 7A--Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (amounts
in millions)

Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest
rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or
leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading
purposes.

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to
our investment holdings that are diversified among various instruments
considered to be cash equivalents, as defined in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report, as well as short-term
investments in government and agency securities with effective maturities of
generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary
objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and
secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short-term investments are
in fixed interest-rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in
fair value due to interest rate fluctuations.

Our policy limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and
government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S.
government and government agency obligations, U.S. government and government
agency money market funds, and insured bank balances. Our wholly-owned captive
insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency
obligations and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. Our
Canadian and Other International subsidiaries' investments are primarily in
money market funds, bankers' acceptances, and bank certificates of deposit,
generally denominated in local currencies.

A 100 basis point change in interest rates as of the end of 2023 would have
had an immaterial incremental change in fair market value. For those
investments that are classified as available-for-sale, the unrealized gains or
losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are
reflected within stockholders' equity in accumulated other comprehensive
income in the consolidated balance sheets.

The nature and amount of our long-term debt may vary as a result of business
requirements, market conditions, and other factors. As of the end of 2023,
long-term debt with fixed interest rates was $6,484. Fluctuations in interest
rates may affect the fair value of the fixed-rate debt. See Note 4 to the
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more
information on our long-term debt.

Foreign Currency Risk

Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in non-functional
currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage
these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign-exchange
contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of these fluctuations on
known future expenditures denominated in a non-functional foreign-currency.
The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S.
dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our

28

* * *

Table of Contents

  

  

international subsidiaries. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these
contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. For
additional information related to the Company's forward foreign-exchange
contracts, see Notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements included
in Item 8 of this Report. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional
currency compared to the non-functional currency exchange rates at September
3, 2023, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $109 and
resulted in an unrealized loss in the consolidated statements of income for
the same amount.

Commodity Price Risk

We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy, particularly electricity
and natural gas, and other commodities used in retail and manufacturing
operations, which we seek to partially mitigate through fixed-price contracts
for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, predominantly in the U.S.
and Canada. We also enter into variable-priced contracts for some purchases of
electricity and natural gas, in addition to some of the fuel for our gas
stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of
derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the "normal purchases and
normal sales" exception under authoritative guidance and require no mark-to-
market adjustment.

29

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Item 8--Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Page  
|  
  
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

|

31  
  
Consolidated Statements of Income

|

34  
  
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income

|

35  
  
Consolidated Balance Sheets

|

36  
  
Consolidated Statements of Equity

|

37  
  
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

|

38  
  
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

|

39  
  
30

* * *

Table of Contents

  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors

Costco Wholesale Corporation:

Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Costco
Wholesale Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of September 3, 2023,
and August 28, 2022, the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for the 53-week period ended
September 3, 2023, and the 52-week periods ended August 28, 2022, and August
29, 2021, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial
statements). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of
September 3, 2023, and August 28, 2022, and the results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the 53-week period ended September 3, 2023, and the
52-week periods ended August 28, 2022, and August 29, 2021, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal
control over financial reporting as of September 3, 2023, based on criteria
established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our
report dated October 10, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

Basis for Opinion

These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public
accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent
with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities
laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included
performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the
consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and
performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in
the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial
statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the
current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that:
(1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated
financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective,
or complex judgments. The communication of a critical audit matter does not
alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken
as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below,
providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts
or disclosures to which it relates.

31

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Evaluation of workers' compensation self-insurance liabilities

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
estimates its self-insurance liabilities by considering historical claims
experience, demographic factors, severity factors, and other actuarial
assumptions. The estimated self-insurance liabilities as of September 3, 2023,
were $1,513 million, a portion of which related to workers' compensation self-
insurance liabilities for the United States operations.

We identified the evaluation of the Company's workers' compensation self-
insurance liabilities for the United States operations as a critical audit
matter because of the extent of specialized skill and knowledge needed to
evaluate the underlying assumptions and judgments made by the Company in the
actuarial models. Specifically, subjective auditor judgment was required to
evaluate the Company's selected loss rates and initial expected losses used in
the actuarial models.

The following are the primary procedures we performed to address this critical
audit matter. We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness
of certain internal controls over the Company's self-insurance workers'
compensation process. This included controls related to the development and
selection of the assumptions listed above used in the actuarial calculation
and review of the actuarial report. We involved actuarial professionals with
specialized skills and knowledge who assisted in:

•Assessing the actuarial models used by the Company for consistency with
generally accepted actuarial standards

•Evaluating the Company's ability to estimate self-insurance workers'
compensation liabilities by comparing its historical estimates with actual
incurred losses and paid losses

•Evaluating the above listed assumptions underlying the Company's actuarial
estimates by developing an independent expectation of the self-insurance
workers' compensation liabilities and comparing them to the amounts recorded
by the Company.

/s/ KPMG LLP

We have served as the Company's auditor since 2002.

Seattle, Washington

October 10, 2023

32

* * *

Table of Contents

  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors

Costco Wholesale Corporation:

Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

We have audited Costco Wholesale Corporation and subsidiaries' (the Company)
internal control over financial reporting as of September 3, 2023, based on
criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of September 3, 2023, based on
criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance
sheets of the Company as of September 3, 2023, and August 28, 2022, the
related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity, and
cash flows for the 53-week period ended September 3, 2023, and the 52-week
periods ended August 28, 2022, and August 29, 2021, and the related notes
(collectively, the consolidated financial statements), and our report dated
October 10, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements.

Basis for Opinion

The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm
registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to
the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the
applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and
the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting
was maintained in all material respects. Our audit of internal control over
financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Seattle, Washington

October 10, 2023

33

* * *

Table of Contents

  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(amounts in millions, except per share data)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 53 Weeks Ended| | 52 Weeks Ended| | 52 Weeks Ended  
| September 3,  
2023| | August 28,  
2022| | August 29,  
2021  
REVENUE| | | | |  
Net sales| $| 237,710 | | | $| 222,730 | | | $| 192,052 |  
Membership fees| 4,580 | | | 4,224 | | | 3,877 |  
Total revenue| 242,290 | | | 226,954 | | | 195,929 |  
OPERATING EXPENSES| | | | |  
Merchandise costs| 212,586 | | | 199,382 | | | 170,684 |  
Selling, general and administrative| 21,590 | | | 19,779 | | | 18,537 |  
Operating income| 8,114 | | | 7,793 | | | 6,708 |  
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)| | | | |  
Interest expense| (160)| | | (158)| | | (171)|  
Interest income and other, net| 533 | | | 205 | | | 143 |  
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES| 8,487 | | | 7,840 | | | 6,680 |  
Provision for income taxes| 2,195 | | | 1,925 | | | 1,601 |  
Net income including noncontrolling interests| 6,292 | | | 5,915 | | | 5,079 |  
  
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests

| -- | | | (71)| | | (72)|  
NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO COSTCO| $| 6,292 | | | $| 5,844 | | | $| 5,007 |  
  
NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE ATTRIBUTABLE TO COSTCO:

| | | | |  
Basic| $| 14.18 | | | $| 13.17 | | | $| 11.30 |  
Diluted| $| 14.16 | | | $| 13.14 | | | $| 11.27 |  
Shares used in calculation (000's)| | | | |  
Basic| 443,854 | | | 443,651 | | | 443,089 |  
Diluted| 444,452 | | | 444,757 | | | 444,346 |  
  
  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

34

* * *

Table of Contents

  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(amounts in millions)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 53 Weeks Ended| | 52 Weeks Ended| | 52 Weeks Ended  
| September 3,  
2023| | August 28,  
2022| | August 29,  
2021  
  
NET INCOME INCLUDING NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS

| $| 6,292 | | | $| 5,915 | | | $| 5,079 |  
  
Foreign-currency translation adjustment and other, net

| 24 | | | (721)| | | 181 |  
Comprehensive income| 6,316 | | | 5,194 | | | 5,260 |  
  
Less: Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests

| -- | | | 36 | | | 93 |  
  
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO COSTCO

| $| 6,316 | | | $| 5,158 | | | $| 5,167 |  
  
  

  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

35

* * *

Table of Contents

  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(amounts in millions, except par value and share data)

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| September 3,  
2023| | August 28,  
2022  
ASSETS| | |  
CURRENT ASSETS| | |  
Cash and cash equivalents| $| 13,700 | | | $| 10,203 |  
Short-term investments| 1,534 | | | 846 |  
Receivables, net| 2,285 | | | 2,241 |  
Merchandise inventories| 16,651 | | | 17,907 |  
Other current assets| 1,709 | | | 1,499 |  
Total current assets| 35,879 | | | 32,696 |  
OTHER ASSETS| | |  
Property and equipment, net| 26,684 | | | 24,646 |  
Operating lease right-of-use assets| 2,713 | | | 2,774 |  
Other long-term assets| 3,718 | | | 4,050 |  
TOTAL ASSETS| $| 68,994 | | | $| 64,166 |  
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY| | |  
CURRENT LIABILITIES| | |  
Accounts payable| $| 17,483 | | | $| 17,848 |  
Accrued salaries and benefits| 4,278 | | | 4,381 |  
Accrued member rewards| 2,150 | | | 1,911 |  
Deferred membership fees| 2,337 | | | 2,174 |  
Current portion of long-term debt| 1,081 | | | 73 |  
Other current liabilities| 6,254 | | | 5,611 |  
Total current liabilities| 33,583 | | | 31,998 |  
OTHER LIABILITIES| | |  
Long-term debt, excluding current portion| 5,377 | | | 6,484 |  
Long-term operating lease liabilities| 2,426 | | | 2,482 |  
Other long-term liabilities| 2,550 | | | 2,555 |  
TOTAL LIABILITIES| 43,936 | | | 43,519 |  
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES| | |  
EQUITY| | |  
  
Preferred stock $0.005 par value; 100,000,000 shares authorized; no shares
issued and outstanding

| -- | | | -- |  
  
Common stock $0.005 par value; 900,000,000 shares authorized; 442,793,000 and
442,664,000 shares issued and outstanding

| 2 | | | 2 |  
Additional paid-in capital| 7,340 | | | 6,884 |  
Accumulated other comprehensive loss| (1,805)| | | (1,829)|  
Retained earnings| 19,521 | | | 15,585 |  
Total Costco stockholders' equity| 25,058 | | | 20,642 |  
Noncontrolling interests| -- | | | 5 |  
TOTAL EQUITY| 25,058 | | | 20,647 |  
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY| $| 68,994 | | | $| 64,166 |  
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

  

36

* * *

Table of Contents

  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

(amounts in millions)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Common Stock| | Additional  
Paid-in  
Capital| | Accumulated  
Other  
Comprehensive  
Income (Loss)| | Retained  
Earnings| | Total Costco  
Stockholders'  
Equity| | Noncontrolling  
Interests| | Total  
Equity  
| Shares (000's)| | Amount|  
BALANCE AT AUGUST 30, 2020| 441,255 | | | $| 4 | | | $| 6,698 | | | $|
(1,297)| | | $| 12,879 | | | $| 18,284 | | | $| 421 | | | $| 18,705 |  
  
Net income

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 5,007 | | | 5,007 | | | 72 | | | 5,079 |  
  
Foreign-currency translation adjustment and other, net

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 160 | | | -- | | | 160 | | | 21 | | | 181 |  
  
Stock-based compensation

| -- | | | -- | | | 668 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 668 | | | -- | | | 668 |  
  
Release of vested restricted stock units (RSUs), including tax effects

| 1,928 | | | -- | | | (312)| | | -- | | | -- | | | (312)| | | -- | | | (312)|  
  
Repurchases of common stock

| (1,358)| | | -- | | | (23)| | | -- | | | (472)| | | (495)| | | -- | | |
(495)|  
Cash dividends declared| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (5,748)| | |
(5,748)| | | -- | | | (5,748)|  
BALANCE AT AUGUST 29, 2021| 441,825 | | | 4 | | | 7,031 | | | (1,137)| | |
11,666 | | | 17,564 | | | 514 | | | 18,078 |  
  
Net income

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 5,844 | | | 5,844 | | | 71 | | | 5,915 |  
  
Foreign-currency translation adjustment and other, net

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (686)| | | -- | | | (686)| | | (35)| | | (721)|  
  
Stock-based compensation

| -- | | | -- | | | 728 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 728 | | | -- | | | 728 |  
  
Release of vested RSUs, including tax effects

| 1,702 | | | -- | | | (363)| | | -- | | | -- | | | (363)| | | -- | | | (363)|  
Dividend to noncontrolling interest| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | -- | | | (208)| | | (208)|  
Acquisition of noncontrolling interest| -- | | | -- | | | (499)| | | (6)| | |
-- | | | (505)| | | (337)| | | (842)|  
  
Repurchases of common stock

| (863)| | | -- | | | (15)| | | -- | | | (427)| | | (442)| | | -- | | | (442)|  
Cash dividends declared and other| -- | | | (2)| | | 2 | | | -- | | | (1,498)|
| | (1,498)| | | -- | | | (1,498)|  
BALANCE AT AUGUST 28, 2022| 442,664 | | | 2 | | | 6,884 | | | (1,829)| | |
15,585 | | | 20,642 | | | 5 | | | 20,647 |  
  
Net income

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 6,292 | | | 6,292 | | | -- | | | 6,292 |  
  
Foreign-currency translation adjustment and other, net

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 24 | | | -- | | | 24 | | | -- | | | 24 |  
  
Stock-based compensation

| -- | | | -- | | | 778 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 778 | | | -- | | | 778 |  
  
Release of vested RSUs, including tax effects

| 1,470 | | | -- | | | (303)| | | -- | | | -- | | | (303)| | | -- | | | (303)|  
  
Repurchases of common stock

| (1,341)| | | -- | | | (24)| | | -- | | | (653)| | | (677)| | | -- | | |
(677)|  
Cash dividends declared and other| -- | | | -- | | | 5 | | | -- | | | (1,703)|
| | (1,698)| | | (5)| | | (1,703)|  
BALANCE AT SEPTEMBER 3, 2023| 442,793 | | | $| 2 | | | $| 7,340 | | | $|
(1,805)| | | $| 19,521 | | | $| 25,058 | | | $| -- | | | $| 25,058 |  
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

  

37

* * *

Table of Contents

  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(amounts in millions)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 53 Weeks Ended| | 52 Weeks Ended| | 52 Weeks Ended  
| September 3,  
2023| | August 28,  
2022| | August 29,  
2021  
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES| | | | |  
Net income including noncontrolling interests| $| 6,292 | | | $| 5,915 | | |
$| 5,079 |  
  
Adjustments to reconcile net income including noncontrolling interests to net
cash provided by operating activities:

| | | | |  
  
Depreciation and amortization

| 2,077 | | | 1,900 | | | 1,781 |  
  
Non-cash lease expense

| 412 | | | 377 | | | 286 |  
  
Stock-based compensation

| 774 | | | 724 | | | 665 |  
Impairment of assets and other non-cash operating activities, net| 495 | | |
39 | | | 144 |  
| | | | |  
  
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

| | | | |  
Merchandise inventories| 1,228 | | | (4,003)| | | (1,892)|  
Accounts payable| (382)| | | 1,891 | | | 1,838 |  
Other operating assets and liabilities, net| 172 | | | 549 | | | 1,057 |  
Net cash provided by operating activities| 11,068 | | | 7,392 | | | 8,958 |  
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES| | | | |  
Purchases of short-term investments| (1,622)| | | (1,121)| | | (1,331)|  
Maturities and sales of short-term investments| 937 | | | 1,145 | | | 1,446 |  
Additions to property and equipment| (4,323)| | | (3,891)| | | (3,588)|  
Other investing activities, net| 36 | | | (48)| | | (62)|  
Net cash used in investing activities| (4,972)| | | (3,915)| | | (3,535)|  
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES| | | | |  
Repayments of short-term borrowings| (935)| | | (6)| | | -- |  
Proceeds from short-term borrowings| 917 | | | 53 | | | 41 |  
Repayments of long-term debt| (75)| | | (800)| | | (94)|  
Tax withholdings on stock-based awards| (303)| | | (363)| | | (312)|  
Repurchases of common stock| (676)| | | (439)| | | (496)|  
Cash dividend payments| (1,251)| | | (1,498)| | | (5,748)|  
Financing lease payments| (291)| | | (176)| | | (67)|  
Dividend to noncontrolling interest| -- | | | (208)| | | -- |  
Acquisition of noncontrolling interest| -- | | | (842)| | | -- |  
Other financing activities, net| -- | | | (4)| | | 188 |  
Net cash used in financing activities| (2,614)| | | (4,283)| | | (6,488)|  
  
EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

| 15 | | | (249)| | | 46 |  
Net change in cash and cash equivalents| 3,497 | | | (1,055)| | | (1,019)|  
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS BEGINNING OF YEAR| 10,203 | | | 11,258 | | | 12,277
|  
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS END OF YEAR| $| 13,700 | | | $| 10,203 | | | $|
11,258 |  
| | | | |  
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:| | | | |  
Cash paid during the year for:| | | | |  
  
Interest

| $| 125 | | | $| 145 | | | $| 149 |  
Income taxes, net| $| 2,234 | | | $| 1,940 | | | $| 1,527 |  
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NON-CASH ACTIVITIES:| | | | |  
Cash dividend declared, but not yet paid| $| 452 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- |  
Capital expenditures included in liabilities| $| 170 | | | $| 156 | | | $| 184
|  
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

  

38

* * *

Table of Contents

  

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(amounts in millions, except share, per share, and warehouse count data)

Note 1--Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business

Costco Wholesale Corporation (Costco or the Company), a Washington
corporation, and its subsidiaries operate membership warehouses based on the
concept that offering members low prices on a limited selection of nationally-
branded and private-label products in a wide range of merchandise categories
will produce high sales volumes and rapid inventory turnover. At September 3,
2023, Costco operated 861 warehouses worldwide: 591 in the United States
(U.S.) located in 46 states, Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico, 107 in Canada,
40 in Mexico, 33 in Japan, 29 in the United Kingdom (U.K.), 18 in Korea, 15 in
Australia, 14 in Taiwan, five in China, four in Spain, two in France, and one
each in Iceland, New Zealand, and Sweden. The Company operates e-commerce
websites in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Mexico, Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and
Australia.

Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Costco and its
subsidiaries. The Company reports noncontrolling interests in consolidated
entities as a component of equity separate from the Company's equity. All
material inter-company transactions between and among the Company and its
consolidated subsidiaries have been eliminated in consolidation. Unless
otherwise noted, references to net income relate to net income attributable to
Costco.

Fiscal Year End

The Company operates on a 52/53-week fiscal year basis with the year ending on
the Sunday closest to August 31\. References to 2023 relate to the 53-week
fiscal year ended September 3, 2023. References to 2022 and 2021 relate to the
52-week fiscal years ended August 28, 2022, and August 29, 2021.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates and
assumptions take into account historical and forward-looking factors that the
Company believes are reasonable. Actual results could differ from those
estimates and assumptions.

Reclassification

Reclassifications were made to the 2022 and 2021 consolidated statements of
cash flows to conform with current year presentation.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The Company considers as cash and cash equivalents all cash on deposit, highly
liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of
purchase, and proceeds due from credit and debit card transactions with
settlement terms of up to four days. Credit and debit card receivables were
$2,282 and $2,010 at the end of 2023 and 2022.

Short-Term Investments

Short-term investments generally consist of debt securities (U.S. Government
and Agency Notes), with maturities at the date of purchase of three months to
five years. Investments with maturities beyond five

39

* * *

Table of Contents

  

years may be classified, based on the Company's determination, as short-term
based on their highly liquid nature and because they represent the investment
of cash that is available for current operations. Short-term investments
classified as available-for-sale are recorded at fair value using the specific
identification method with the unrealized gains and losses reflected in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until realized. Realized gains
and losses from the sale of available-for-sale securities, if any, are
determined on a specific identification basis and are recorded in interest
income and other, net in the consolidated statements of income. These
available-for-sale investments have a low level of inherent credit risk given
they are issued by the U.S. Government and Agencies. Changes in their fair
value are primarily attributable to changes in interest rates and market
liquidity. Short-term investments classified as held-to-maturity are financial
instruments that the Company has the intent and ability to hold to maturity
and are reported net of any related amortization and are not remeasured to
fair value on a recurring basis.

The Company periodically evaluates unrealized losses in its investment
securities for credit impairment, using both qualitative and quantitative
criteria. In the event a security is deemed to be impaired as the result of a
credit loss, the Company recognizes the loss in interest income and other, net
in the consolidated statements of income.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The Company accounts for certain assets and liabilities at fair value. The
carrying value of the Company's financial instruments, including cash and cash
equivalents, receivables and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to
their short-term nature or variable interest rates. See Notes 2, 3, and 4 for
the carrying value and fair value of the Company's investments, derivative
instruments, and fixed-rate debt.

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. Fair value is estimated by applying a
fair value hierarchy, which requires maximizing the use of observable inputs
when measuring fair value. The three levels of inputs are:

Level 1: Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities.

Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are
corroborated by market

data.

Level 3: Significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market
data.

The Company's valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of money
market mutual funds are based on quoted market prices, such as quoted net
asset values published by the fund as supported in an active market. Valuation
methodologies used to measure the fair value of all other non-derivative
financial instruments are based on independent external valuation information.
The pricing process uses data from a variety of independent external valuation
information providers, including trades, bid price or spread, two-sided
markets, quotes, benchmark curves including but not limited to treasury
benchmarks, Secured Overnight Financing Rate and swap curves, discount rates,
and market data feeds. All are observable in the market or can be derived
principally from or corroborated by observable market data. The Company
reports transfers in and out of Levels 1, 2, and 3, as applicable, using the
fair value of the individual securities as of the beginning of the reporting
period in which the transfer(s) occurred.

Current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying
values. Long-term financial liabilities include the Company's long-term debt,
which are recorded on the balance sheet at issuance price and adjusted for
unamortized discounts or premiums and debt issuance costs. Discounts, premiums
and debt issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the
loan. The estimated fair

40

* * *

Table of Contents

  

value of the Company's long-term debt is based primarily on reported market
values, recently completed market transactions, and estimates based upon
interest rates, maturities, and credit.

Receivables, Net

Receivables consist primarily of vendor, reinsurance, credit card incentive,
third-party pharmacy and other receivables. Vendor receivables include
discounts and volume rebates. Balances are generally presented on a gross
basis, separate from any related payable due. In certain circumstances, these
receivables may be settled against the related payable to that vendor, in
which case the receivables are presented on a net basis. Reinsurance
receivables are held by the Company's wholly-owned captive insurance
subsidiary and primarily represent amounts ceded through reinsurance
arrangements gross of the amounts assumed under reinsurance, which are
presented within other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
Credit card incentive receivables primarily represent amounts earned under co-
branded credit card arrangements. Third-party pharmacy receivables generally
relate to amounts due from members' insurers. Other receivables primarily
consist of amounts due from governmental entities, mostly tax-related items.

The valuation allowance related to receivables was not material to our
consolidated financial statements at the end of 2023 and 2022.

Merchandise Inventories

Merchandise inventories consist of the following:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022  
United States | $| 12,153 | | | $| 13,160 |  
Canada| 1,579 | | | 1,966 |  
Other International| 2,919 | | | 2,781 |  
Merchandise inventories| $| 16,651 | | | $| 17,907 |  
  
Merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. U.S.
merchandise inventories are valued by the cost method of accounting, using the
last-in, first-out (LIFO) basis. The Company believes the LIFO method more
fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current
costs with current revenues. The Company records an adjustment each quarter,
if necessary, for the projected annual effect of inflation or deflation, and
these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end, after
actual inflation or deflation rates and inventory levels have been determined.
An immaterial LIFO charge was recorded in 2023. Due to inflation in 2022, a
$438 charge was recorded to merchandise costs to increase the cumulative LIFO
valuation on merchandise inventories at August 28, 2022. Canadian and Other
International merchandise inventories are predominantly valued using the cost
and retail inventory methods, respectively, using the first-in, first-out
(FIFO) basis.

The Company provides for estimated inventory losses between physical inventory
counts using estimates based on experience. The provision is adjusted
periodically to reflect physical inventory counts, which generally occur in
the second and fourth fiscal quarters. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is
reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as the Company
progresses towards earning those rebates, provided that they are probable and
reasonably estimable.

Property and Equipment, Net

Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization
expense is computed primarily using the straight-line method over estimated
useful lives. Leasehold improvements made after the beginning of the initial
lease term are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of
the asset or the remaining term of the initial lease plus any renewals that
are reasonably certain at the date the leasehold improvements are made.

41

* * *

Table of Contents

  

The Company capitalizes certain computer software and costs incurred in
developing or obtaining software for internal use. During development, these
costs are included in construction in progress. To the extent that the assets
become ready for their intended use, these costs are included in equipment and
fixtures and amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives.

Repair and maintenance costs are expensed when incurred. Expenditures for
remodels, refurbishments and improvements that add to or change asset function
or useful life are capitalized. Assets removed during the remodel,
refurbishment or improvement are retired. Assets classified as held-for-sale
at the end of 2023 and 2022 were immaterial.

The following table summarizes the Company's property and equipment balances
at the end of 2023 and 2022:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Estimated Useful Lives| | 2023| | 2022  
Land| N/A| | $| 8,590 | | | $| 7,955 |  
Buildings and improvements|

5-50 years

| | 22,001 | | | 20,120 |  
Equipment and fixtures|

3-20 years

| | 11,512 | | | 10,275 |  
Construction in progress| N/A| | 1,266 | | | 1,582 |  
| | | 43,369 | | | 39,932 |  
Accumulated depreciation and amortization| | (16,685)| | | (15,286)|  
Property and equipment, net| | $| 26,684 | | | $| 24,646 |  
  
The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment on an annual basis,
when relocating or closing a facility, or when events or changes in
circumstances may indicate the carrying amount of the asset group, generally
an individual warehouse, may not be fully recoverable. For asset groups held
and used, including warehouses to be relocated, the carrying value of the
asset group is considered recoverable when the estimated future undiscounted
cash flows generated from the use and eventual disposition of the asset group
exceed the respective carrying value. In the event that the carrying value is
not considered recoverable, an impairment loss is recognized for the asset
group to be held and used equal to the excess of the carrying value above the
estimated fair value of the asset group. For asset groups classified as held-
for-sale (disposal group), the carrying value is compared to the disposal
group's fair value less costs to sell. The Company estimates fair value by
obtaining market appraisals from third party brokers or using other valuation
techniques. Impairment charges recognized in 2023 were immaterial. In 2022 and
2021, the Company recognized write-offs of $118 and $84 for information
technology assets which are reflected in SG&A.

Leases

The Company leases land, buildings, and/or equipment at warehouses and certain
other office and distribution facilities. Leases generally contain one or more
of the following options, which the Company can exercise at the end of the
initial term: (a) renew the lease for a defined number of years at the then-
fair market rental rate or rate stipulated in the lease agreement; (b)
purchase the property at the then-fair market value or purchase price stated
in the agreement; or (c) a right of first refusal in the event of a third-
party offer.

Some leases include free-rent periods and step-rent provisions, which are
recognized on a straight-line basis over the original term of the lease and
any extension options that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise from
the date the Company has control of the property. Certain leases provide for
periodic rent increases based on price indices or the greater of minimum
guaranteed amounts or sales volume, which are recognized as variable lease
payments. Our leases do not contain any material residual value guarantees or
material restrictive covenants.

42

* * *

Table of Contents

  

The Company determines at inception whether a contract is or contains a lease.
Non-lease components and the lease components to which they relate are
accounted for together as a single lease component for all asset classes. The
Company initially records right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease obligations for
its finance and operating leases based on the discounted future minimum lease
payments over the term. The lease term is defined as the noncancelable period
of the lease plus any options to extend when it is reasonably certain that the
Company will exercise the option. As the rate implicit in the Company's leases
is not easily determinable, the present value of the sum of the lease payments
is calculated using the Company's incremental borrowing rate. The rate is
determined using a portfolio approach based on the rate of interest the
Company would pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments on a
collateralized basis over a similar term. The Company uses quoted interest
rates from financial institutions to derive the incremental borrowing rate.
Impairment of ROU assets is evaluated in a similar manner as described in
Property and Equipment, Net above. During 2023, the Company recognized charges
totaling $391, primarily related to the impairment of certain leased assets
associated with charter shipping activities. This charge is included in
merchandise costs.

The Company's asset retirement obligations (ARO) primarily relate to leasehold
improvements that must be removed at the end of a lease. These obligations are
generally recorded as a discounted liability, with an offsetting asset at the
inception of the lease term, based upon the estimated fair value of the costs
to remove the improvements. These liabilities are accreted over time to the
projected future value of the obligation. The ARO assets are depreciated using
the same depreciation method as the leasehold improvement assets and are
included with buildings and improvements. Estimated ARO liabilities associated
with these leases are included in other liabilities in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet.

Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of the
net assets acquired and is not subject to amortization. The Company reviews
goodwill annually in the fourth quarter for impairment or when circumstances
indicate carrying value may exceed the fair value. This evaluation is
performed at the reporting unit level. If a qualitative assessment indicates
that it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than carrying
value, a quantitative analysis is completed using either the income or market
approach, or a combination of both. The income approach estimates fair value
based on expected discounted future cash flows, while the market approach uses
comparable public companies and transactions to develop metrics to be applied
to historical and expected future operating results.

Goodwill is included in other long-term assets in the consolidated balance
sheets. The following table summarizes goodwill by reportable segment:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| United States | | Canada | | Other International | | Total  
Balance at August 29, 2021| $| 953 | | | $| 28 | | | $| 15 | | | $| 996 |  
Changes in currency translation| -- | | | (1)| | | (2)| | | (3)|  
Balance at August 28, 2022| $| 953 | | | $| 27 | | | $| 13 | | | $| 993 |  
Changes in currency translation| -- | | | (1)| | | 2 | | | 1 |  
Balance at September 3, 2023| $| 953 | | | $| 26 | | | $| 15 | | | $| 994 |  
  
Definite-lived intangible assets, which are not material, are included in
other long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheets and are amortized on
a straight-line basis over their estimated lives, which approximates the
pattern of expected economic benefit.

Insurance/Self-insurance Liabilities

Claims for employee health-care benefits, workers' compensation, general
liability, property damage, directors' and officers' liability, vehicle
liability, inventory loss, and other exposures are funded

43

* * *

Table of Contents

  

predominantly through self-insurance. Insurance coverage is maintained for
certain risks to limit exposures arising from very large losses. The Company
uses various risk management mechanisms, including a wholly-owned captive
insurance subsidiary (the captive) and participates in a reinsurance program.
Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the Company are not
discounted and are estimated using historical claims experience, demographic
factors, severity factors, and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated
accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future
occurrences, claims, or expenses differ from these assumptions and historical
trends. At the end of 2023 and 2022, these insurance liabilities were $1,513
and $1,364 in the aggregate, and were included in accrued salaries and
benefits and other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets,
classified based on their nature.

The captive receives direct premiums, which are netted against the Company's
premium costs in SG&A expenses in the consolidated statements of income. The
captive participates in a reinsurance program that includes third-party
participants. The participant agreements and practices of the reinsurance
program are designed to limit a participating members' individual risk. Income
statement adjustments related to the reinsurance program and related impacts
to the consolidated balance sheets are recognized as information becomes
known. In the event the Company leaves the reinsurance program, the Company
retains its primary obligation to the policyholders for prior activity.

Derivatives

The Company is exposed to foreign-currency exchange-rate fluctuations in the
normal course of business. It manages these fluctuations, in part, through the
use of forward foreign-exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the
impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures
denominated in a non-functional foreign-currency. The contracts relate
primarily to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by the
Company's international subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the
U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge
accounting. The Company seeks to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts
and does not intend to engage in speculative transactions. Some of these
contracts contain credit-risk-related contingent features that require
settlement of outstanding contracts upon certain triggering events. The
aggregate fair value amounts of derivative instruments in a net liability
position and the amount needed to settle the instruments immediately if the
credit-risk-related contingent features were triggered were immaterial at the
end of 2023 and 2022. The aggregate notional amounts of open, unsettled
forward foreign-exchange contracts were $1,068 and $1,242 at the end of 2023
and 2022. See Note 3 for information on the fair value of unsettled forward
foreign-exchange contracts at the end of 2023 and 2022.

The unrealized gains or losses recognized in interest income and other, net in
the accompanying consolidated statements of income relating to the net changes
in the fair value of unsettled forward foreign-exchange contracts were
immaterial in 2023, 2022 and 2021.

The Company is exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy, particularly
electricity and natural gas, and other commodity products used in retail and
manufacturing operations, which it seeks to partially mitigate through the use
of fixed-price contracts for certain of its warehouses and other facilities,
primarily in the U.S. and Canada. The Company also enters into variable-priced
contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for its gas
stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of
derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the "normal purchases and
normal sales" exception under authoritative guidance and require no mark-to-
market adjustment.

Foreign Currency

The functional currencies of the Company's international subsidiaries are
their local currencies. Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies
are translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Translation
adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Revenues and
expenses of the Company's consolidated foreign operations are translated at
average exchange rates prevailing during the year.

44

* * *

Table of Contents

  

The Company recognizes foreign-currency transaction gains and losses related
to revaluing or settling monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
currencies other than the functional currency in interest income and other,
net in the consolidated statements of income. Generally, these include the
U.S. dollar cash and cash equivalents and the U.S. dollar payables of
consolidated subsidiaries revalued to their functional currency. Also included
are realized foreign-currency gains or losses from settlements of forward
foreign-exchange contracts. These items were $46 and $84 in 2023 and 2022 and
immaterial in 2021.

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes sales for the amount of consideration collected from
the member, which includes gross shipping fees where applicable, and is net of
sales taxes collected and remitted to government agencies and member returns.
The Company reserves for estimated returns based on historical trends in
merchandise returns and reduces sales and merchandise costs accordingly. The
Company records, on a gross basis, a refund liability and an asset for
recovery, which are included in other current liabilities and other current
assets, respectively, in the consolidated balance sheets.

The Company offers merchandise in the following core merchandise categories:
foods and sundries, non-foods, and fresh foods. The Company also provides
expanded products and services through warehouse ancillary and other
businesses. The majority of revenue from merchandise sales is recognized at
the point of sale. Revenue generated through e-commerce or special orders is
generally recognized upon shipment to the member. For merchandise shipped
directly to the member, shipping and handling costs are expensed as incurred
as fulfillment costs and included in merchandise costs in the consolidated
statements of income. In certain ancillary businesses, revenue is deferred
until the member picks up merchandise at the warehouse. Deferred sales are
included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.

The Company is the principal for the majority of its transactions and
recognizes revenue on a gross basis. The Company is the principal when it has
control of the merchandise or service before it is transferred to the member,
which generally is established when Costco is primarily responsible for
merchandising decisions, pricing discretion, and maintains the relationship
with the member, including assurance of member service and satisfaction.

The Company accounts for membership fee revenue, net of refunds, on a deferred
basis, ratably over the one-year membership period. Deferred membership fees
at the end of 2023 and 2022 were $2,337 and $2,174.

In most countries, the Company's Executive members qualify for a 2% reward on
qualified purchases, subject to an annual maximum value, which does not expire
and is redeemable at Costco warehouses. The Company accounts for this reward
as a reduction in sales, net of the estimated impact of non-redemptions
(breakage), with the corresponding liability classified as accrued member
rewards in the consolidated balance sheets. Estimated breakage is computed
based on redemption data. For 2023, 2022, and 2021, the net reduction in sales
was $2,576, $2,307, and $2,047.

The Company sells and otherwise provides proprietary shop cards that do not
expire and are redeemable at the warehouse or online for merchandise or
membership. Revenue from shop cards is recognized upon redemption, and
estimated breakage is recognized based on redemption data. The Company
accounts for outstanding shop card balances as a shop card liability, net of
estimated breakage. Shop card liabilities are included in other current
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.

Citibank, N.A. is the exclusive issuer of co-branded credit cards to U.S.
members. The Company receives various forms of consideration from Citibank,
including a royalty on purchases made on the card outside of Costco. A portion
of the royalty is used to fund the rebate that cardholders receive, after
taking into consideration breakage, which is calculated based on rebate
redemption data. The rebates are issued in February and expire on December 31.
The Company also maintains co-branded credit card arrangements in Canada and
certain other International subsidiaries.

45

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Merchandise Costs

Merchandise costs consist of the purchase price or manufacturing costs of
inventory sold, inbound and outbound shipping charges and all costs related to
the Company's depot, fulfillment and manufacturing operations, and are reduced
by vendor consideration. Merchandise costs also include salaries, benefits,
depreciation, and utilities in fresh foods departments and certain ancillary
businesses.

Vendor Consideration

The Company receives funds from vendors for discounts and a variety of other
programs. These programs are evidenced by agreements that are reflected in the
carrying value of the inventory when earned or as the Company progresses
towards earning the rebate or discount, and as a component of merchandise
costs as the merchandise is sold. Other vendor consideration is generally
recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual
milestones, terms of the related agreement, or by another systematic approach.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries,
benefits and workers' compensation costs for warehouse employees (other than
fresh foods departments and certain ancillary businesses which are reflected
in merchandise costs) as well as all regional and home office employees,
including buying personnel. Selling, general and administrative expenses also
include substantially all building and equipment depreciation, stock
compensation expense, credit and debit card processing fees, utilities,
preopening, as well as other operating costs incurred to support warehouse and
e-commerce website operations.

Retirement Plans

The Company's 401(k) retirement plan is available to all U.S. employees over
the age of 18 who have completed 90 days of employment. The plan allows
participants to make wage deferral contributions, a portion of which the
Company matches. In addition, the Company provides each eligible participant
an annual discretionary contribution. The Company also has a defined
contribution plan for employees in Canada and contributes a percentage of each
employee's wages. Certain subsidiaries in the Company's Other International
operations have defined benefit and defined contribution plans, which are not
material. Amounts expensed under all plans were $914, $824, and $748 for 2023,
2022, and 2021, and are predominantly included in SG&A expenses in the
consolidated statements of income.

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company grants stock-based compensation, primarily to employees and non-
employee directors. Grants to executive officers are generally performance-
based. Through a series of shareholder approvals, there have been amended and
restated plans and new provisions implemented by the Company. Restricted Stock
Units (RSUs) granted to employees and to non-employee directors generally vest
over five years and three years and are subject to quarterly vesting in the
event of retirement or voluntary termination. Employees who attain at least 25
years of service with the Company receive shares under accelerated vesting
provisions on the annual vesting date. Forfeitures are recognized as they
occur.

Compensation expense for awards is predominantly recognized using the
straight-line method over the requisite service period for the entire award.
The terms of the RSUs, including performance-based awards, provide for
accelerated vesting for employees and non-employee directors who have attained
25 or more and five or more years of service with the Company, respectively.
Recipients are not entitled to vote or receive dividends on unvested and
undelivered shares. Compensation expense for the accelerated shares is
recognized upon achievement of the long-service term. The cumulative amount of
compensation cost recognized at any point in time equals at least the portion
of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that date. The
fair value of RSUs is calculated as the market value of the

46

* * *

Table of Contents

  

common stock on the measurement date less the present value of the expected
dividends forgone during the vesting period.

Stock-based compensation expense is predominantly included in SG&A expenses in
the consolidated statements of income. Certain stock-based compensation costs
are capitalized or included in the cost of merchandise. See Note 7 for
additional information on the Company's stock-based compensation plans.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences attributed to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their tax bases,
credits and loss carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in
which those temporary differences and carry-forwards are expected to be
recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date. A valuation allowance is established when necessary to reduce
deferred tax assets to amounts that are more likely than not expected to be
realized.

The timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of
sustaining uncertain tax positions requires significant judgment. The benefits
of uncertain tax positions are recorded in the Company's consolidated
financial statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability
that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge from tax
authorities. When facts and circumstances change, the Company reassesses these
probabilities and records changes as appropriate.

Net Income per Common Share Attributable to Costco

The computation of basic net income per share uses the weighted average number
of shares that were outstanding during the period. The computation of diluted
net income per share uses the weighted average number of shares in the basic
net income per share calculation plus the number of common shares that would
be issued assuming vesting of all potentially dilutive common shares
outstanding using the treasury stock method for shares subject to RSUs.

Stock Repurchase Programs

Repurchased shares of common stock are retired, in accordance with the
Washington Business Corporation Act. The par value of repurchased shares is
deducted from common stock and the excess repurchase price over par value is
deducted by allocation to additional paid-in capital and retained earnings.
The amount allocated to additional paid-in capital is the current value of
additional paid-in capital per share outstanding and is applied to the number
of shares repurchased. Any remaining amount is allocated to retained earnings.
See Note 6 for additional information.

Note 2--Investments

The Company's investments were as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
2023:| Cost  
Basis| | Unrealized  
Losses, Net| | Recorded  
Basis  
Available-for-sale:| | | | |  
Government and agency securities| $| 650 | | | $| (17)| | | $| 633 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Held-to-maturity:| | | | |  
Certificates of deposit| 901 | | | -- | | | 901 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Total short-term investments| $| 1,551 | | | $| (17)| | | $| 1,534 |  
  
47

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
2022:| Cost  
Basis| | Unrealized  
Losses, Net| | Recorded  
Basis  
Available-for-sale:| | | | |  
Government and agency securities| $| 534 | | | $| (5)| | | $| 529 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Held-to-maturity:| | | | |  
Certificates of deposit| 317 | | | -- | | | 317 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Total short-term investments| $| 851 | | | $| (5)| | | $| 846 |  
  
Gross unrecognized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale securities
were not material for the years ended September 3, 2023, and August 28, 2022.
At those dates, there were no available-for-sale securities in a material
continuous unrealized-loss position. There were no sales of available-for-sale
securities during 2023 or 2022.

The maturities of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities at the
end of 2023 are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Available-For-Sale| | Held-To-Maturity  
| Cost Basis| | Fair Value|  
Due in one year or less| $| 111 | | | $| 110 | | | $| 901 |  
Due after one year through five years| 337 | | | 330 | | | -- |  
Due after five years| 202| | 193| | -- |  
Total| $| 650 | | | $| 633 | | | $| 901 |  
  
Note 3--Fair Value Measurement

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis

The table below presents information regarding the Company's financial assets
and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis
and indicate the level within the hierarchy reflecting the valuation
techniques utilized to determine such fair value.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Level 2  
| 2023| | 2022  
| | |  
Investment in government and agency securities| $| 633 | | | $| 529 |  
| | |  
| | |  
| | |  
  
Forward foreign-exchange contracts, in asset position(1)

| 18 | | | 34 |  
  
Forward foreign-exchange contracts, in (liability) position(1)

| (7)| | | (2)|  
Total| $| 644 | | | $| 561 |  
  
____________

(1)The asset and the liability values are included in other current assets and
other current liabilities, respectively, in the consolidated balance sheets.

At September 3, 2023, and August 28, 2022, the Company did not hold any Level
1 or 3 financial assets or liabilities that were measured at fair value on a
recurring basis. There were no transfers between levels during 2023 or 2022.

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis

Assets and liabilities recognized and disclosed at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis include items such as financial assets measured at
amortized cost and long-lived nonfinancial assets. These assets are measured
at fair value if determined to be impaired. Please see Note 1 for additional
information.

48

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Note 4--Debt

Short-Term Borrowings

The Company maintains various short-term bank credit facilities, with a
borrowing capacity of $1,234 and $1,257, in 2023 and 2022. Short-term
borrowings outstanding were immaterial at the end of 2023 and 2022.

Long-Term Debt

The Company's long-term debt consists primarily of Senior Notes, described
below. The Company at its option may redeem the Senior Notes at any time, in
whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption
price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount or the sum of
the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and
interest to maturity. Additionally, upon certain events, a holder has the
right to require a repurchase at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus
accrued and unpaid interest. Interest on all outstanding long-term debt is
payable semi-annually. The estimated fair value of Senior Notes is valued
using Level 2 inputs.

Other long-term debt consists of Guaranteed Senior Notes issued by the
Company's Japanese subsidiary, valued using Level 3 inputs. In May 2023, the
Japanese subsidiary repaid $75 of its Guaranteed Senior Notes.

At the end of 2023 and 2022, the fair value of the Company's long-term debt,
including the current portion, was approximately $5,738 and $6,033. The
carrying value of long-term debt consisted of the following:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022  
  
2.750% Senior Notes due May 2024

| $| 1,000 | | | $| 1,000 |  
  
3.000% Senior Notes due May 2027

| 1,000 | | | 1,000 |  
  
1.375% Senior Notes due June 2027

| 1,250 | | | 1,250 |  
  
1.600% Senior Notes due April 2030

| 1,750 | | | 1,750 |  
  
1.750% Senior Notes due April 2032

| 1,000 | | | 1,000 |  
Other long-term debt| 484 | | | 590 |  
Total long-term debt| 6,484 | | | 6,590 |  
Less unamortized debt discounts and issuance costs| 26 | | | 33 |  
  
Less current portion(1)

| 1,081 | | | 73 |  
Long-term debt, excluding current portion| $| 5,377 | | | $| 6,484 |  
  
_______________

(1)Net of unamortized debt discounts and issuance costs.

Maturities of long-term debt during the next five fiscal years and thereafter
are as follows:

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
2024| $| 1,081 |  
2025| 103 |  
2026| 76 |  
2027| 2,250 |  
2028| -- |  
  
Thereafter

| 2,974 |  
  
Total

| $| 6,484 |  
  
49

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Note 5--Leases

The tables below present information regarding the Company's lease assets and
liabilities.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022  
Assets| | |  
Operating lease right-of-use assets| $| 2,713 | | | $| 2,774 |  
  
Finance lease assets(1)

| 1,325 | | | 1,620 |  
Total lease assets| $| 4,038 | | | $| 4,394 |  
Liabilities| | |  
Current| | |  
  
Operating lease liabilities(2)

| $| 220 | | | $| 239 |  
  
Finance lease liabilities(2)

| 129 | | | 245 |  
Long-term| | |  
Operating lease liabilities| 2,426 | | | 2,482 |  
  
Finance lease liabilities(3)

| 1,303 | | | 1,383 |  
Total lease liabilities| $| 4,078 | | | $| 4,349 |  
  
_______________

(1)Included in other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheets.

(2)Included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.

(3)Included in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022  
Weighted-average remaining lease term (years)| | |  
  
Operating leases

| 20| | 20  
  
Finance leases

| 24| | 17  
Weighted-average discount rate| | |  
  
Operating leases

| 2.47 | %| | 2.26 | %  
  
Finance leases

| 4.47 | %| | 3.97 | %  
  
The components of lease expense, excluding short-term lease costs and sublease
income (which were not material), were as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | | | |  
| | | 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
  
Operating lease costs(1)

| | | $| 309 | | | $| 297 | | | $| 296 |  
Finance lease costs:| | | | | | |  
  
Amortization of lease assets(1)

| | | 169 | | | 128 | | | 50 |  
  
Interest on lease liabilities(2)

| | | 54 | | | 45 | | | 37 |  
  
Variable lease costs(1)

| | | 160 | | | 157 | | | 151 |  
Total lease costs| | | $| 692 | | | $| 627 | | | $| 534 |  
  
_______________

(1)Included in selling, general and administrative expenses and merchandise
costs in the consolidated statements of income.

(2)Included in interest expense and merchandise costs in the consolidated
statements of income.

50

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | |  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:| | | |
|  
  
Operating cash flows -- operating leases

| $| 287 | | | $| 277 | | | $| 282 |  
  
Operating cash flows -- finance leases

| 54 | | | 45 | | | 37 |  
  
Financing cash flows -- finance leases

| 291 | | | 176 | | | 67 |  
Operating lease assets obtained in exchange for new or modified leases| 202 |
| | 231 | | | 350 |  
Financing lease assets obtained in exchange for new or modified leases| 100 |
| | 794 | | | 399 |  
  
As of September 3, 2023, future minimum payments during the next five fiscal
years and thereafter are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

Operating Leases(1)

| | Finance Leases| |  
2024| $| 277 | | | $| 180 | | |  
2025| 230 | | | 175 | | |  
2026| 226 | | | 100 | | |  
2027| 206 | | | 91 | | |  
2028| 191 | | | 92 | | |  
Thereafter| 2,271 | | | 1,579 | | |  
  
Total(2)

| 3,401 | | | 2,217 | | |  
Less amount representing interest| 755 | | | 785 | | |  
Present value of lease liabilities| $| 2,646 | | | $| 1,432 | | |  
  
_______________

(1)Operating lease payments have not been reduced by future sublease income of
$83.

(2)Excludes $843 of lease payments for leases that have been signed but not
commenced.

Note 6--Equity

Dividends

Cash dividends declared in 2023 totaled $3.84 per share, as compared to $3.38
in 2022. The Company's current quarterly dividend rate is $1.02 per share.

Stock Repurchase Programs

The Company's stock repurchase program is conducted under a $4,000
authorization by the Board of Directors, which expires in January 2027. As of
the end of 2023, the remaining amount available under the authorization was
$3,563. The following table summarizes the Company's stock repurchase
activity:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Shares  
Repurchased  
(000's)| | Average  
Price per  
Share| | Total Cost  
2023| 1,341 | | | $| 504.68 | | | $| 677 |  
2022| 863 | | | 511.46 | | | 442 |  
2021| 1,358 | | | 364.39 | | | 495 |  
  
These amounts may differ from repurchases of common stock in the consolidated
statements of cash flows due to changes in unsettled stock repurchases at the
end of each fiscal year. Purchases are made

51

* * *

Table of Contents

  

from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block
purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1.

Note 7--Stock-Based Compensation

The 2019 Incentive Plan authorized the issuance of 17,500,000 shares
(10,000,000 RSUs) of common stock for future grants, plus the remaining shares
that were available for grant and the future forfeited shares from grants
under the previous plan, up to a maximum aggregate of 27,800,000 shares
(15,885,000 RSUs). The Company issues new shares of common stock upon vesting
of RSUs. Shares for vested RSUs are generally delivered to participants
annually, net of shares withheld for taxes.

Summary of Restricted Stock Unit Activity

At the end of 2023, 8,747,000 shares were available to be granted as RSUs, and
the following awards were outstanding:

•2,869,000 time-based RSUs, which vest upon continued employment or service
over specified periods of time; and

•176,000 performance-based RSUs, of which 135,000 were granted to executive
officers subject to the determination of the attainment of performance targets
for 2023. This determination occurred in September 2023, at which time at
least 33% of the units vested, as a result of the long service of all
executive officers, with the exception of one executive officer who has less
than 25 years of service. The remaining awards vest upon continued employment
over specified periods of time. Please refer to Note 1 for accelerated vesting
requirements.

The following table summarizes RSU transactions during 2023:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Number of  
Units  
(in 000's)| | Weighted-Average  
Grant Date Fair  
Value  
Outstanding at the end of 2022| 3,449 | | | $| 338.41 |  
Granted| 1,814 | | | 471.47 |  
Vested and delivered| (2,102)| | | 352.53 |  
Forfeited| (116)| | | 398.31 |  
| | |  
Outstanding at the end of 2023| 3,045 | | | $| 405.63 |  
  
The weighted-average grant date fair value of RSUs granted was $471.47,
$476.06, and $369.15 in 2023, 2022, and 2021. The remaining unrecognized
compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs at the end of 2023 was $790 and
the weighted-average period of time over which this cost will be recognized is
1.6 years. Included in the outstanding balance at the end of 2023 were
approximately 1,050,000 RSUs vested but not yet delivered.

Summary of Stock-Based Compensation

The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense and the
related tax benefits:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Stock-based compensation expense| $| 774 | | | $| 724 | | | $| 665 |  
  
Less recognized income tax benefit

| 163 | | | 154 | | | 140 |  
Stock-based compensation expense, net| $| 611 | | | $| 570 | | | $| 525 |  
  
52

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Note 8-- Taxes

Income Taxes

Income before income taxes is comprised of the following:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Domestic| $| 6,264 | | | $| 5,759 | | | $| 4,931 |  
Foreign| 2,223 | | | 2,081 | | | 1,749 |  
Total| $| 8,487 | | | $| 7,840 | | | $| 6,680 |  
  
The provisions for income taxes are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Federal:| | | | |  
Current| $| 1,056 | | | $| 798 | | | $| 718 |  
Deferred| 33 | | | (35)| | | 84 |  
Total federal| 1,089 | | | 763 | | | 802 |  
State:| | | | |  
Current| 374 | | | 333 | | | 265 |  
Deferred| 10 | | | (5)| | | 11 |  
Total state| 384 | | | 328 | | | 276 |  
Foreign:| | | | |  
Current| 732 | | | 851 | | | 557 |  
Deferred| (10)| | | (17)| | | (34)|  
Total foreign| 722 | | | 834 | | | 523 |  
Total provision for income taxes| $| 2,195 | | | $| 1,925 | | | $| 1,601 |  
  
The reconciliation between the statutory tax rate and the effective rate for
2023, 2022, and 2021 is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Federal taxes at statutory rate| $| 1,782 | | | 21.0 | %| | $| 1,646 | | |
21.0 | %| | $| 1,403 | | | 21.0 | %  
State taxes, net| 302 | | | 3.6 | | | 267 | | | 3.4 | | | 243 | | | 3.6 |  
Foreign taxes, net| 160 | | | 1.9 | | | 231 | | | 3.0 | | | 92 | | | 1.4 |  
Employee stock ownership plan (ESOP)| (25)| | | (0.3)| | | (23)| | | (0.3)| |
| (91)| | | (1.3)|  
Other| (24)| | | (0.3)| | | (196)| | | (2.5)| | | (46)| | | (0.7)|  
Total| $| 2,195 | | | 25.9 | %| | $| 1,925 | | | 24.6 | %| | $| 1,601 | | |
24.0 | %  
  
The Company recognized total net tax benefits of $62, $130 and $163 in 2023,
2022 and 2021. These include benefits of $54, $94 and $75, related to stock-
based compensation. During 2021, there was a net tax benefit of $70 related to
the portion of the special dividend paid through the Company's 401(k) plan.

53

* * *

Table of Contents

  

The components of the deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022  
Deferred tax assets:| | |  
Equity compensation| $| 89 | | | $| 84 |  
Deferred income/membership fees| 309 | | | 302 |  
Foreign tax credit carry forward| 250 | | | 201 |  
Operating lease liabilities| 678 | | | 727 |  
Accrued liabilities and reserves| 761 | | | 694 |  
Other| 20 | | | 5 |  
Total deferred tax assets| 2,107 | | | 2,013 |  
Valuation allowance| (422)| | | (313)|  
Total net deferred tax assets| 1,685 | | | 1,700 |  
Deferred tax liabilities:| | |  
Property and equipment| (867)| | | (962)|  
Merchandise inventories| (380)| | | (231)|  
Operating lease right-of-use assets| (655)| | | (701)|  
Foreign branch deferreds| (87)| | | (85)|  
| | |  
Total deferred tax liabilities| (1,989)| | | (1,979)|  
Net deferred tax liabilities| $| (304)| | | $| (279)|  
  
  

The deferred tax accounts at the end of 2023 and 2022 include deferred income
tax assets of $491 and $445, included in other long-term assets; and deferred
income tax liabilities of $795 and $724, included in other long-term
liabilities.

In 2023 and 2022, the Company had valuation allowances of $422 and $313,
primarily related to foreign tax credits that the Company believes will not be
realized due to carry forward limitations. The foreign tax credit carry
forwards are set to expire beginning in fiscal 2030.

  

The Company generally no longer considers fiscal year earnings of non-U.S.
consolidated subsidiaries after 2017 to be indefinitely reinvested (other than
China and Taiwan) and has recorded the estimated incremental foreign
withholding taxes (net of available foreign tax credits) and state income
taxes payable assuming a hypothetical repatriation to the U.S. The Company
considers undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. consolidated
subsidiaries, which totaled $3,225, to be indefinitely reinvested and has not
provided for withholding or state taxes.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax
benefits for 2023 and 2022 is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022  
Gross unrecognized tax benefit at beginning of year| $| 16 | | | $| 33 |  
Gross increases--current year tax positions| 1 | | | 1 |  
Gross increases--tax positions in prior years| 11 | | | 12 |  
Gross decreases--tax positions in prior years| (11)| | | (12)|  
Gross decreases--settlements| -- | | | (12)|  
Lapse of statute of limitations| (1)| | | (6)|  
Gross unrecognized tax benefit at end of year| $| 16 | | | $| 16 |  
  
54

* * *

Table of Contents

  

The gross unrecognized tax benefit includes tax positions for which the
ultimate deductibility is highly certain but there is uncertainty about the
timing of such deductibility. At the end of 2023 and 2022, these amounts were
immaterial. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, other than
interest and penalties, the disallowance of these tax positions would not
affect the annual effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of cash
to the taxing authority. The total amount of such unrecognized tax benefits
that if recognized would favorably affect the effective income tax rate in
future periods is $14 and $15 at the end of 2023 and 2022.

Accrued interest and penalties related to income tax matters are classified as
a component of income tax expense. Accrued interest and penalties recognized
during 2023 and 2022, and accrued at the end of each respective period were
not material.

The Company is currently under audit by several jurisdictions in the United
States and abroad. Some audits may conclude in the next 12 months, and the
unrecognized tax benefits recorded in relation to the audits may differ from
actual settlement amounts. It is not practical to estimate the effect, if any,
of any amount of such change during the next 12 months to previously recorded
uncertain tax positions in connection with the audits. The Company does not
anticipate that there will be a material increase or decrease in the total
amount of unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months.

The Company files income tax returns in the United States, various state and
local jurisdictions, in Canada, and in several other foreign jurisdictions.
With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state
or local examination for years before fiscal 2018. The Company is currently
subject to examination in California for fiscal years 2013 to present.

Other Taxes

The Company is subject to multiple examinations for value added, sales-based,
payroll, product, import or other non-income taxes in various jurisdictions.
In certain cases, the Company has received assessments from the authorities.
Possible losses or range of possible losses associated with these matters are
either immaterial or an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss cannot
be made at this time. If certain matters or a group of matters were to be
decided adversely to the Company, it could result in a charge that might be
material to the results of an individual fiscal quarter or year.

Note 9--Net Income per Common and Common Equivalent Share

The following table shows the amounts used in computing net income per share
and the weighted average number of shares of basic and of potentially dilutive
common shares outstanding (shares in 000's):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
  
Net income attributable to Costco

| $| 6,292 | | | $| 5,844 | | | $| 5,007 |  
  
Weighted average basic shares

| 443,854 | | | 443,651 | | | 443,089 |  
RSUs| 598 | | | 1,106 | | | 1,257 |  
  
Weighted average diluted shares

| 444,452 | | | 444,757 | | | 444,346 |  
  
Note 10--Commitments and Contingencies

Legal Proceedings

The Company is involved in many claims, proceedings and litigations arising
from its business and property ownership. In accordance with applicable
accounting guidance, the Company establishes an accrual for legal proceedings
if and when those matters present loss contingencies that are both probable
and reasonably estimable. There may be losses in excess of amounts accrued.
The Company monitors those matters for developments that would affect the
likelihood of a loss (taking into account where applicable indemnification
arrangements concerning suppliers and insurers) and the accrued amount, if
any, thereof, and adjusts the amount as appropriate. The Company has recorded
immaterial accruals with

55

* * *

Table of Contents

  

respect to certain matters described below, in addition to other immaterial
accruals for matters not described below. If the loss contingency at issue is
not both probable and reasonably estimable, the Company does not establish an
accrual, but monitors for developments that make the contingency both probable
and reasonably estimable. In each case, there is a reasonable possibility that
a loss may be incurred, including a loss in excess of the applicable accrual.
For matters where no accrual has been recorded, the possible loss or range of
loss (including any loss in excess of the accrual) cannot, in the Company's
view, be reasonably estimated because, among other things: the remedies or
penalties sought are indeterminate or unspecified; the legal and/or factual
theories are not well developed; and/or the matters involve complex or novel
legal theories or a large number of parties.

The Company is a defendant in an action commenced in July 2013 under the
California Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA) alleging violation
of California Wage Order 7-2001 for failing to provide seating to employees
who work at entrance and exit doors in California warehouses. Canela v. Costco
Wholesale Corp. (Case No. 2013-1-CV-248813; Santa Clara Superior Court). The
complaint sought relief under the California Labor Code, including civil
penalties and attorneys' fees. On April 26, 2023, the court entered a final
judgment in favor of the Company. The plaintiff appealed the judgment in June
2023.

In June 2022, a business center employee raised similar claims, alleging
failure to provide seating to employees who work at membership refund desks in
California warehouses and business centers. Rodriguez v. Costco Wholesale
Corp. (Case No. 22CV012847; Alameda Superior Court). The complaint seeks
relief under the California Labor Code, including civil penalties and
attorneys' fees. The Company filed an answer denying the material allegations
of the complaint.

In March 2019, employees filed a class action against the Company alleging
claims under California law for failure to pay overtime, to provide meal and
rest periods and itemized wage statements, to timely pay wages due to
terminating employees, to pay minimum wages, and for unfair business
practices. Relief was sought under the California Labor Code, including civil
penalties and attorneys' fees. Nevarez v. Costco Wholesale Corp. (Case No.
2:19-cv-03454; C.D. Cal.). The Company filed an answer denying the material
allegations of the complaint. In December 2019, the court issued an order
denying class certification. In January 2020, the plaintiffs dismissed their
Labor Code claims without prejudice, and the court remanded the action to
state court. Settlement for an immaterial amount was agreed upon in February
2021. Final court approval of the settlement was granted on May 3, 2022. A
proposed intervenor appealed the denial of her motion to intervene, and the
appeal was dismissed on February 15, 2023.

In May 2019, an employee filed a class action against the Company alleging
claims under California law for failure to pay overtime, to provide itemized
wage statements, to timely pay wages due to terminating employees, to pay
minimum wages, and for unfair business practices. Rough v. Costco Wholesale
Corp. (Case No. 2:19-cv-01340; E.D. Cal.). Relief is sought under the
California Labor Code, including civil penalties and attorneys' fees. In
September 2021, the court granted the Company's motion for partial summary
judgment and denied class certification. In August 2019, the plaintiff filed a
companion case in state court seeking penalties under PAGA. Rough v. Costco
Wholesale Corp. (Case No. FCS053454; Sonoma County Superior Court). Relief is
sought under the California Labor Code, including civil penalties and
attorneys' fees. The state court action has been stayed pending resolution of
the federal action. In September 2023 the parties reached an agreement in
principle on a settlement for an immaterial amount.

In December 2020, a former employee filed suit against the Company asserting
collective and class claims on behalf of non-exempt employees under the Fair
Labor Standards Act and New York Labor Law for failure to pay for all hours
worked, failure to pay certain non-exempt employees on a weekly basis, and
failure to provide proper wage statements and notices. The plaintiff also
asserted individual retaliation claims. Cappadora v. Costco Wholesale Corp.
(Case No. 1:20-cv-06067; E.D.N.Y.). Based on an agreement in principle
concerning settlement of the matter, involving a proposed payment by the
Company of an immaterial amount, the federal action has been dismissed. In
April 2022, Cappadora and a second plaintiff filed an action against the
Company in New York state court, asserting the same class

56

* * *

Table of Contents

  

claims asserted in the federal action under the New York Labor Law and seeking
preliminary approval of the class settlement. Cappadora and Sancho v. Costco
Wholesale Corp. (Index No. 604757/2022; Nassau County Supreme Court).
Following final approval of the settlement, the case was dismissed on April
14, 2023.

In August 2021, a former employee filed a similar suit, asserting class claims
on behalf of certain non-exempt employees under New York Labor Law for failure
to pay on a weekly basis. Umadat v. Costco Wholesale Corp. (Case No.
2:21-cv-4814; E.D.N.Y.). The Company filed an answer, denying the material
allegations of the complaint. In August 2023, the parties reached an agreement
in principle on a settlement for an immaterial amount. In April 2022, a former
employee filed a similar suit, asserting class claims on behalf of certain
non-exempt employees under New York Labor Law, as well as under the Fair Labor
Standards Act, for failure to pay on a weekly basis and failure to pay
overtime. Burian v. Costco Wholesale Corp. (Case No. 2:22-cv-02108; E.D.N.Y.).
The case was settled for an immaterial amount and was dismissed with prejudice
in May 2023.

In February 2021, a former employee filed a class action against the Company
alleging violations of California Labor Code regarding payment of wages, meal
and rest periods, wage statements, reimbursement of expenses, payment of final
wages to terminated employees, and for unfair business practices. Edwards v.
Costco Wholesale Corp. (Case No. 5:21-cv-00716: C.D. Cal.). On September 27,
2022, the parties reached a settlement for an immaterial amount, which is
subject to court approval.

In July 2021, a former temporary staffing employee filed a class action
against the Company and a staffing company alleging violations of the
California Labor Code regarding payment of wages, meal and rest periods, wage
statements, the timeliness of wages and final wages, and for unfair business
practices. Dimas v. Costco Wholesale Corp. (Case No. STK-CV-UOE-2021-0006024;
San Joaquin Superior Court). The Company has moved to compel arbitration of
the plaintiff's individual claims and to dismiss the class action complaint.
On September 7, 2021, the same plaintiff filed a separate representative
action under PAGA, asserting the same Labor Code violations and seeking civil
penalties and attorneys' fees. The case has been stayed pending arbitration of
the plaintiff's individual claims.

In September 2021, an employee filed a class action against the Company
alleging violations of the California Labor Code regarding failure to provide
sick pay, failure to timely pay wages due at separation from employment, and
for violations of California's unfair competition law. De Benning v. Costco
Wholesale Corp. (Case No. 34-2021-00309030-CU-OE-GDS; Sacramento Superior
Court). In April 2022, a settlement for an immaterial amount was agreed upon,
subject to court approval. Final approval of the settlement was granted on
February 10, 2023.

In March 2022, an employee filed a class action against the Company alleging
violations of the California Labor Code regarding the failure to: pay wages,
provide meal and rest periods, provide accurate wage statements, timely pay
final wages, and reimburse business expenses. Diaz v. Costco Wholesale Corp.
(Case No. 22STCV09513; Los Angeles Superior Court). In December 2022, the case
was settled for an immaterial amount, and the case was dismissed.

In May 2022, an employee filed a PAGA action against the Company alleging
claims under the California Labor Code regarding the payment of wages, meal
and rest periods, the timeliness of wages and final wages, wage statements,
accurate records and business expenses. Gonzalez v. Costco Wholesale Corp.
(Case No. 22AHCV00255; Los Angeles Superior Court). The Company filed an
answer denying the allegations.

Beginning in December 2017, the United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation consolidated numerous cases concerning the impacts of opioid abuses
filed against various defendants by counties, cities, hospitals, Native
American tribes, third-party payors, and others. In re National Prescription
Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804) (N.D. Ohio). Included are cases filed against
the Company by counties and cities in Michigan, New Jersey, Oregon, Virginia
and South Carolina, a third-party payor in Ohio, and a hospital in Texas,
class actions filed on behalf of infants born with opioid-related medical
conditions in 40 states, and class actions and individual actions filed on
behalf of individuals seeking to recover alleged

57

* * *

Table of Contents

  

increased insurance costs associated with opioid abuse in 43 states and
American Samoa. Claims against the Company filed in federal court outside the
MDL have been asserted by certain counties and cities in Florida and Georgia;
claims filed by certain cities and counties in New York are pending in state
court. Claims against the Company in state courts in New Jersey, Oklahoma,
Utah, and Arizona have been dismissed. The Company is defending all of the
pending matters.

Members of the Board of Directors, six corporate officers and the Company were
defendants in a shareholder derivative action filed in June 2022 related to
chicken welfare and alleged breaches of fiduciary duties. Smith, et ano. v.
Vachris, et al., Superior Court of the State of Washington, County of King,
No, 22-2-08937-7SEA. The complaint sought from the individual defendants'
damages, injunctive relief, costs, and attorneys' fees. On March 28, 2023, the
court granted the defendants' motion to dismiss the action. The plaintiffs
subsequently made a demand that the Board of Directors take various actions,
including among other things, pursuing claims against directors and officers
of the type asserted in the litigation. A demand review committee of the Board
has been appointed to make a recommendation to the Board as to the demand.

In February 2023, Go Green Norcal, LLC filed an arbitration demand against the
Company. The demand alleged a breach of a supply agreement and sought
unspecified damages and cancellation of a loan from the Company. In March
2023, the Company filed its answer, denying any breach by the Company, along
with counterclaims against Go Green and an affiliate for breach of contract,
negligent misrepresentation, and an accounting. In August 2023 the plaintiff
asserted that its damages exceed $70 million.

In January 2023 the Company received a Civil Investigative Demand from the
U.S. Attorney's Office, Western District of Washington, requesting documents.
The government is conducting a False Claims Act investigation concerning
whether the Company presented or caused to be presented to the federal
government for payment false claims relating to prescription medications.

The Company does not believe that any pending claim, proceeding or litigation,
either alone or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows; it is
possible that an unfavorable outcome of some or all of the matters, however
unlikely, could result in a charge that might be material to the results of an
individual fiscal quarter or year.

  

58

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Note 11--Segment Reporting

The Company is principally engaged in the operation of membership warehouses
through wholly owned subsidiaries in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Japan, the
U.K., Korea, Australia, Taiwan, China, Spain, France, Iceland, New Zealand,
and Sweden. Reportable segments are largely based on management's organization
of the operating segments for operational decisions and assessments of
financial performance, which considers geographic locations. The material
accounting policies of the segments are as described in Note 1. Inter-segment
net sales and expenses have been eliminated in computing total revenue and
operating income.

The following table provides information for the Company's reportable
segments:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| United States| | Canada| | Other  
International| | Total  
2023| | | | | | |  
Total revenue| $| 176,630 | | | $| 33,056 | | | $| 32,604 | | | $| 242,290 |  
Operating income| 5,392 | | | 1,448 | | | 1,274 | | | 8,114 |  
Depreciation and amortization| 1,599 | | | 183 | | | 295 | | | 2,077 |  
Additions to property and equipment| 3,288 | | | 281 | | | 754 | | | 4,323 |  
Property and equipment, net| 18,760 | | | 2,443 | | | 5,481 | | | 26,684 |  
Total assets| 49,189 | | | 6,420 | | | 13,385 | | | 68,994 |  
2022| | | | | | |  
Total revenue| $| 165,294 | | | $| 31,675 | | | $| 29,985 | | | $| 226,954 |  
Operating income| 5,268 | | | 1,346 | | | 1,179 | | | 7,793 |  
Depreciation and amortization| 1,436 | | | 180 | | | 284 | | | 1,900 |  
Additions to property and equipment| 2,795 | | | 388 | | | 708 | | | 3,891 |  
Property and equipment, net| 17,205 | | | 2,459 | | | 4,982 | | | 24,646 |  
Total assets| 44,904 | | | 6,558 | | | 12,704 | | | 64,166 |  
2021| | | | | | |  
Total revenue| $| 141,398 | | | $| 27,298 | | | $| 27,233 | | | $| 195,929 |  
Operating income| 4,470 | | | 1,093 | | | 1,145 | | | 6,708 |  
Depreciation and amortization| 1,339 | | | 177 | | | 265 | | | 1,781 |  
Additions to property and equipment| 2,612 | | | 272 | | | 704 | | | 3,588 |  
Property and equipment, net| 15,993 | | | 2,317 | | | 5,182 | | | 23,492 |  
Total assets| 39,589 | | | 5,962 | | | 13,717 | | | 59,268 |  
  
Disaggregated Revenue

The following table summarizes net sales by merchandise category; sales from
e-commerce websites and business centers have been allocated to the applicable
merchandise categories:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
  
Foods and Sundries

| $| 96,175 | | | $| 85,629 | | | $| 77,277 |  
  
Non-Foods

| 60,865 | | | 61,100 | | | 55,966 |  
  
Fresh Foods

| 31,977 | | | 29,527 | | | 27,183 |  
  
Warehouse Ancillary and Other Businesses

| 48,693 | | | 46,474 | | | 31,626 |  
  
Total net sales

| $| 237,710 | | | $| 222,730 | | | $| 192,052 |  
  
  

59

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Item 9--Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A--Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) are designed
to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we
file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and
reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC
and to ensure that information required to be disclosed is accumulated and
communicated to management, including our principal executive and financial
officers, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure. The Chief Executive
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, with assistance from other members of
management, have reviewed the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of September 3, 2023, and, based on their evaluation, have
concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
such date.

Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the Exchange Act. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with U.S. GAAP and includes those policies and procedures that: (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and
fairly reflect our transactions and the dispositions of our assets; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that our transactions are recorded as necessary
to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and that our receipts and expenditures are
being made only in accordance with appropriate authorizations; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material
effect on our financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness for future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Under the supervision of and with the participation of our management, we
assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as
of September 3, 2023, using the criteria set forth by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control--
Integrated Framework (2013).

Based on its assessment, management has concluded that our internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of September 3, 2023. The
attestation of KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, on
the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is included
with the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that occurred
during the fourth quarter of 2023 that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over
financial reporting.

  

60

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Item 9B--Other Information (amounts in whole dollars)

Disclosure pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria
Human Rights Act of 2012 and Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended.

During 2023 we had three individual cardholders under a business membership in
the name of the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Iran at our subsidiary in
Mexico. Gross revenue during 2023 attributable to the membership was
approximately $1,276, and our estimated profit on these transactions was
approximately $100. The membership was canceled during the second quarter of
2023. The Company does not intend to continue these activities.

During the fiscal quarter ended September 3, 2023, no director or officer of
the Company adopted or terminated a Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement or non-
Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement, as each term is defined in Item 408(a) of
Regulation S-K.

Item 9C--Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

Not Applicable.

PART III

Item 10--Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Information relating to the availability of our code of ethics for senior
financial officers and a list of our executive officers appear in Part I, Item
1 of this Report. The information required by this Item concerning our
directors and nominees for director is incorporated herein by reference to the
sections entitled "Proposal 1: Election of Directors," "Directors" and
"Committees of the Board" in Costco's Proxy Statement for its 2024 annual
meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days of
the end of our fiscal year ("Proxy Statement").

Item 11--Executive Compensation

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to
the sections entitled "Compensation of Directors," "Executive Compensation,"
and "Compensation Discussion and Analysis" in Costco's Proxy Statement.

Item 12--Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to
the section entitled "Principal Shareholders" and "Equity Compensation Plan
Information" in Costco's Proxy Statement.

Item 13--Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to
the sections entitled "Proposal 1: Election of Directors," "Directors,"
"Committees of the Board," "Shareholder Communications to the Board," "Meeting
Attendance," "Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors,"
"Certain Relationships and Transactions" and "Report of the Audit Committee"
in Costco's Proxy Statement.

Item 14--Principal Accounting Fees and Services

Our independent registered public accounting firm is KPMG LLP, Seattle, WA,
Auditor Firm ID: 185.

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to
the sections entitled "Independent Public Accountants" in Costco's Proxy
Statement.

61

* * *

Table of Contents

  

PART IV

Item 15--Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

(a)Documents filed as part of this report are as follows:

1.Financial Statements:

See the listing of Financial Statements included as a part of this Form 10-K
in Item 8 of Part II.

2.Financial Statement Schedules:

All schedules have been omitted because the required information is not
present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated
financial statements, including the notes thereto.

(b)Exhibits: The required exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K or are incorporated herein by reference.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  | |  | | Incorporated by Reference  
Exhibit  
Number| | Exhibit Description| | Filed  
Herewith| | Form| | Period Ended| | Filing Date  
| | | | | | | | | |  
3.1| |

[Articles of Incorporation as amended of Costco Wholesale
Corporation](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983222000021/costex3110k082822.htm)

| | | | 10-K| | 8/28/2022| | 10/5/2022  
| | | | | | | | | |  
3.2| |

[Bylaws as amended of Costco Wholesale
Corporation](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983223000034/costex328-k8923.htm)

| | | | 8-K| | | | 8/10/2023  
| | | | | | | | | |  
4.1| |

First Supplemental Indenture between Costco Wholesale Corporation and U.S.
Bank National Association, as Trustee, dated as of March 20, 2002
(incorporated by reference to [Exhibits
4.1](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090730302000061/exh41to8k.txt)
and
[4.2](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090730302000061/exh42to8k.txt)
to the Company's Current Report on the Form 8-K filed on March 25, 2002)

| | | | 8-K| | | | 3/25/2002  
| | | | | | | | | |  
4.2| |

[Form of 1.375% Senior Notes due June 20,
2027](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000119312520110803/d903866dex41.htm)

| | | | 8-K| | | | 4/17/2020  
| | | | | | | | | |  
4.3| |

[Form of 1.600% Senior Notes due April 20,
2030](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000119312520110803/d903866dex42.htm)

| | | | 8-K| | | | 4/17/2020  
| | | | | | | | | |  
4.4| |

[Form of 1.750% Senior Notes due April 20,
2032](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000119312520110803/d903866dex43.htm)

| | | | 8-K| | | | 4/17/2020  
| | | | | | | | | |  
4.5| |

[Form of 2.300% Senior Notes due May 18,
2022](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000119312517172294/d398248dex42.htm)

| | | | 8-K| | | | 5/16/2017  
| | | | | | | | | |  
4.6| |

[Form of 2.750% Senior Notes due May 18,
2024](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000119312517172294/d398248dex43.htm)

| | | | 8-K| | | | 5/16/2017  
| | | | | | | | | |  
4.7| |

[Form of 3.000% Senior Notes due May 18,
2027](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000119312517172294/d398248dex44.htm)

| | | | 8-K| | | | 5/16/2017  
| | | | | | | | | |  
4.8| |

[Description of Common
Stock](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983222000021/costex4810k082822.htm)

| | | | 10-K| | 8/28/2022| | 10/5/2022  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.1*| |

[Costco Wholesale Executive Health
Plan](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000119312512428890/d388097dex101.htm)

| | | | 10-K| | 9/2/2012| | 10/19/2012  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.2*| |

[2019 Incentive
Plan](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983218000018/costproxy2018.htm#sD1A6C6E2B97792177C11C8F81F35ABA5)

| | | | DEF 14| | | | 12/17/2019  
  
62

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  | |  | | Incorporated by Reference  
Exhibit  
Number| | Exhibit Description| | Filed  
Herewith| | Form| | Period Ended| | Filing Date  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.3*| |

[Seventh Restated 2002 Stock Incentive
Plan](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983214000028/costdefproxy2014.htm#sADEFC67A06AE143EB0AD50BB166A9871)

| | | | DEF 14A| | | | 12/19/2014  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.3.1*| |

[2019 Stock Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement-
Employee](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983219000033/costex1021112419.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/24/2019| | 12/23/2019  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.3.2*| |

[2019 Stock Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement - Non-U.S.
Employee](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983219000033/costex1022112419.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/24/2019| | 12/23/2019  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.3.3*| |

[2019 Stock Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement-Non-Executive
Director](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983219000033/costex1023112419.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/24/2019| | 12/23/2019  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.3.4*| |

[2019 Stock Incentive Plan Letter Agreement for 2020 Performance-Based
Restricted Stock Units-
Executive](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983219000033/costex1024112419.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/24/2019| | 12/23/2019  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.4*| |

[Fiscal 2023 Executive Bonus
Plan](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000119312522281298/d352180dex101.htm)

| | | | 8-K| | | | 11/9/2022  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.5*| |

[Executive Employment Agreement, effective January 1, 2017, between W. Craig
Jelinek and Costco Wholesale
Corporation](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983216000040/costex10110q112016.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/20/2016| | 12/16/2016  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.5.1*| |

[Extension of the Term of the Executive Employment Agreement, effective
January 1, 2019, between W. Craig Jelinek and Costco Wholesale
Corporation](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983218000022/costex10210q112518.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/25/2018| | 12/20/2018  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.5.2*| |

[Extension of the Term of the Executive Employment Agreement, effective
January 1, 2020, between W. Craig Jelinek and Costco Wholesale
Corporation](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983219000033/costex103112419.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/24/2019| | 12/23/2019  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.5.3*| |

[Extension of the Term of the Executive Employment Agreement, effective
January 1, 2021, between W. Craig Jelinek and Costco Wholesale
Corporation](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0000909832/000090983220000026/costex10210q112220.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/22/2020| | 12/16/2020  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.5.4*| |

[Extension of the Term of the Executive Employment Agreement, effective
January 1, 2022, between W. Craig Jelinek and Costco Wholesale
Corporation](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0000909832/000090983221000021/costex10210q112121.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/21/2021| | 12/22/2021  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.5.5*| |

[Extension of the Term of the Executive Employment Agreement, effective
January 1, 2023, between W. Craig Jelinek and Costco Wholesale
Corporation](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983222000035/costex10210q112022.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/20/2022| | 12/29/2022  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
63

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  | |  | | Incorporated by Reference  
Exhibit  
Number| | Exhibit Description| | Filed  
Herewith| | Form| | Period Ended| | Filing Date  
10.6| |

[Form of Indemnification
Agreement](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000103221099001718/0001032210-99-001718.txt)

| | | | 14A| | | | 12/13/1999  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.7*| |

[Deferred Compensation
Plan](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000144530513002422/costex10510k2013.htm)

| | | | 10-K| | 9/1/2013| | 10/16/2013  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.8**| |

[Citibank, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983215000012/costex10110qa51015.htm)

| | | | 10-Q/A| | 5/10/2015| | 8/31/2015  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.8.1**| |

[First Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983215000017/costex10210q112215.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/22/2015| | 12/17/2015  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.8.2**| |

[Second Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983216000023/costex10110q21416.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 2/14/2016| | 3/9/2016  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.8.3**| |

[Third Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983216000032/costex105310k82816.htm)

| | | | 10-K| | 8/28/2016| | 10/12/2016  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.8.4**| |

[Fourth Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983218000002/costex10110q21818.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 2/18/2018| | 3/15/2018  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.8.5**| |

[Fifth Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983219000003/costex10210q21719.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 2/17/2019| | 3/13/2019  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
10.8.6#

| |

[Sixth Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983219000019/costex108710k9119.htm)

| | | | 10-K| | 9/1/2019| | 10/11/2019  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.8.7| |

[Seventh Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0000909832/000090983221000003/costex10110q21421.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 2/14/2021| | 3/10/2021  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.8.8| |

[Eighth Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0000909832/000090983222000005/costex10110q21322.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 2/13/2022| | 3/10/2022  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.8.9| |

[Ninth Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983222000035/costex10310q112022.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/20/2022| | 12/29/2022  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.8.10| |

[Tenth Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983222000035/costex10410q112022.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 11/20/2022| | 12/29/2022  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.8.11| |

[Eleventh Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/909832/000090983223000014/costex10110q21223.htm)

| | | | 10-Q| | 2/12/2023| | 3/9/2023  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
10.8.12#

| |

[Twelfth Amendment to Citi, N.A. Co-Branded Credit Card
Agreement](costex1081210k9323.htm)

| | x| | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
21.1| |

[Subsidiaries of the Company](costex21110k9323.htm)

| | x| | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
23.1| |

[Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm](costex23110k9323.htm)

| | x| | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
31.1| |

[Rule 13a - 14(a) Certifications](costex31110k9323.htm)

| | x| | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
32.1| |

[Section 1350 Certifications](costex32110k9323.htm)

| | x| | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
101.INS| | Inline XBRL Instance Document| | x| | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
101.SCH| | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document| | x| | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
64

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  | |  | | Incorporated by Reference  
Exhibit  
Number| | Exhibit Description| | Filed  
Herewith| | Form| | Period Ended| | Filing Date  
101.CAL| | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document| | x|
| | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
101.DEF| | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document| | x| |
| | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
101.LAB| | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document| | x| | | |
| |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
101.PRE| | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document| | x|
| | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
104| | Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as inline XBRL and
contained in Exhibit 101)| | x| | | | | |  
  
_____________________

* Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.

** Portions of this exhibit have been omitted under a confidential treatment
order issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

# Certain information in this exhibit has been omitted because it is both (i)
not material and (ii) customarily and actually treated by the registrant as
private or confidential.

(c)Financial Statement Schedules--None.

Item 16--Form 10-K Summary

None.

65

* * *

Table of Contents

  

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

October 10, 2023

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

(Registrant)  
  
| |  
| By| |

/s/ RICHARD A. GALANTI  
  
| | |

Richard A. Galanti

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Director  
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

October 10, 2023

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
By|  |

/s/ W. CRAIG JELINEK

|  | By|  |

/s/ HAMILTON E. JAMES  
  
|  |

W. Craig Jelinek

Chief Executive Officer and Director

|  | |  |

Hamilton E. James  
Chairman of the Board  
  
| | |  
By|  |

/s/ RICHARD A. GALANTI

|  | By|  |

/s/ DANIEL M. HINES  
  
|  |

Richard A. Galanti  
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Director  
(Principal Financial Officer)

|  | |  |

Daniel M. Hines  
Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller  
(Principal Accounting Officer)  
  
| | |  
By|  |

/s/ RON M. VACHRIS

| | By| |

/s/ SUSAN L. DECKER  
  
|  |

Ron M. Vachris  
President, Chief Operating Officer and Director

| | | |

Susan L. Decker  
Director  
  
| | |  
By| |

/s/ KENNETH D. DENMAN

| | By| |

/s/ SALLY JEWELL  
  
| |

Kenneth D. Denman  
Director

| | | |

Sally Jewell  
Director  
  
| | |  
By| |

/s/ CHARLES T. MUNGER

|  | By| |

/s/ JEFFREY S. RAIKES  
  
| |

Charles T. Munger  
Director

|  | | |

Jeffrey S. Raikes  
Director  
  
| | |  
By| |

/s/ JOHN W. STANTON

| | By| |

/s/ MARY (MAGGIE) A. WILDEROTTER  
  
| |

John W. Stanton  
Director

| | | |

Mary (Maggie) A. Wilderotter  
Director  
  
  

66

