00010458102023FYfalseP3YP4YP5YP1YP3YP1Yhttp://fasb.org/us-

Table of Contents

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

____________________________________________________________________________________________

FORM 10-K

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
☒| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934  
  
For the fiscal year ended January 29, 2023

OR

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
☐| TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
  
Commission file number: 0-23985

![nvda-20230129_g1.jpg](nvda-20230129_g1.jpg)

NVIDIA CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Delaware| 94-3177549  
(State or other jurisdiction of| (I.R.S. Employer  
Incorporation or Organization)| Identification No.)  
  
2788 San Tomas Expressway

Santa Clara, California 95051

(408) 486-2000

(Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of
principal executive offices)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Title of each class| Trading Symbol(s)| Name of each exchange on which
registered  
Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share| NVDA| The Nasdaq Global Select
Market  
  
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such
files). Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer,"
"accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth
company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Large accelerated filer| ☒| Accelerated filer| ☐| Non-accelerated filer| ☐|
Smaller reporting company| ☐| Emerging growth company| ☐  
  
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has
elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new
or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a)
of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and
attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting
firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by
check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the
filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial
statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements
that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by
any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period
pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined
in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☒

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of July 29, 2022 was approximately $434.37 billion (based on the
closing sales price of the registrant's common stock as reported by the Nasdaq
Global Select Market on July 29, 2022). This calculation excludes 98 million
shares held by directors and executive officers of the registrant. This
calculation does not exclude shares held by such organizations whose ownership
exceeds 5% of the registrant's outstanding common stock that have represented
to the registrant that they are registered investment advisers or investment
companies registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.

The number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 17, 2023 was
2.47 billion.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for its 2023 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant
to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K are incorporated by reference into
Part III, Items 10-14 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

  

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION

TABLE OF CONTENTS| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | Page  
|

PART I

|  
  
Item 1.

|

Business

|

4  
  
Item 1A.

|

Risk Factors

|

15  
  
Item 1B.

|

Unresolved Staff Comments

|

33  
  
Item 2.

|

Properties

|

33  
  
Item 3.

|

Legal Proceedings

|

34  
  
Item 4.

|

Mine Safety Disclosures

|

34  
  
|

PART II

|  
  
Item 5.

|

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities

|

34  
  
Item 6.

|

[Reserved]

|

35  
  
Item 7.

|

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

|

36  
  
Item 7A.

|

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

|

46  
  
Item 8.

|

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

|

47  
  
Item 9.

|

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

|

47  
  
Item 9A.

|

Controls and Procedures

|

47  
  
Item 9B.

|

Other Information

|

48  
  
Item 9C.

|

Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

|

48  
  
|

PART III

|  
  
Item 10.

|

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

|

48  
  
Item 11.

|

Executive Compensation

|

49  
  
Item 12.

|

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters

|

49  
  
Item 13.

|

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

|

50  
  
Item 14.

|

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

|

50  
  
|

PART IV

|  
  
Item 15.

|

Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules

|

51  
  
Item 16.

|

Form 10-K Summary

|

90  
  
Signatures

|  |

91  
  
2

* * *

Table of Contents

WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION

Investors and others should note that we announce material financial
information to our investors using our investor relations website, press
releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We also use
the following social media channels as a means of disclosing information about
the company, our products, our planned financial and other announcements and
attendance at upcoming investor and industry conferences, and other matters
and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD:

NVIDIA Twitter Account (https://twitter.com/nvidia)

NVIDIA Corporate Blog (http://blogs.nvidia.com)

NVIDIA Facebook Page (https://www.facebook.com/nvidia)

NVIDIA LinkedIn Page (http://www.linkedin.com/company/nvidia)

NVIDIA Instagram Page (https://www.instagram.com/nvidia)

In addition, investors and others can view NVIDIA videos on YouTube
(https://www.YouTube.com/nvidia).

The information we post through these social media channels may be deemed
material. Accordingly, investors should monitor these accounts and the blog,
in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference
calls and webcasts. This list may be updated from time to time. The
information we post through these channels is not a part of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K. These channels may be updated from time to time on NVIDIA's
investor relations website.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements which are
based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently
available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking
statements by terms such as "may," "will," "should," "could," "goal," "would,"
"expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "project," "predict,"
"potential" and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking
statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties
and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time
frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results,
performance, time frames or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-
looking statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties and other
factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in greater detail under the heading
"Risk Factors." Given these risks, uncertainties and other factors, you should
not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, these
forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of
the date of this filing. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K
completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be
materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-
looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law,
we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly,
or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those
anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information
becomes available in the future.

All references to "NVIDIA," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" mean NVIDIA
Corporation and its subsidiaries.

In addition, statements that "we believe" and similar statements reflect our
beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon
information available to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for
such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our
statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive
inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information.
These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to
unduly rely upon these statements.

(C) 2023 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.

3

* * *

Table of Contents

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Our Company

NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging
computational problems. Since our original focus on PC graphics, we have
expanded to several other large and important computationally intensive
fields. Fueled by the sustained demand for exceptional 3D graphics and the
scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has leveraged its GPU architecture to
create platforms for scientific computing, artificial intelligence, or AI,
data science, autonomous vehicles, or AV, robotics, metaverse and 3D internet
applications.

The GPU was initially used to simulate human imagination, enabling the virtual
worlds of video games and films. Today, it also simulates human intelligence,
enabling a deeper understanding of the physical world. Its parallel processing
capabilities, supported by thousands of computing cores, are essential to
running deep learning algorithms. This form of AI, in which software writes
itself by learning from large amounts of data, can serve as the brain of
computers, robots and self-driving cars that can perceive and understand the
world. GPU-powered deep learning is being adopted by thousands of enterprises
to deliver services and products that would have been immensely difficult with
traditional coding. Some of the most recent applications of GPU-powered deep
learning include recommendation systems, which are AI algorithms trained to
understand the preferences, previous decisions, and characteristics of people
and products using data gathered about their interactions, large language
models, which can recognize, summarize, translate, predict and generate text
and other content based on knowledge gained from massive datasets, and
generative AI, which uses algorithms that create new content, including audio,
code, images, text, simulations, and videos, based on the data they have been
trained on.

NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, systems, software,
algorithms, libraries, and services to create unique value for the markets we
serve. While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we
address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and
software stacks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to
support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same underlying
technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally
or by third-party developers and partners. The large and growing number of
developers across our platforms strengthens our ecosystem and increases the
value of our platform to our customers.

Innovation is at our core. We have invested over $37 billion in research and
development since our inception, yielding inventions that are essential to
modern computing. Our invention of the GPU in 1999 defined modern computer
graphics and established NVIDIA as the leader in computer graphics. With our
introduction of the CUDA programming model in 2006, we opened the parallel
processing capabilities of our GPU for general purpose computing. This
approach significantly accelerates the most demanding high-performance
computing, or HPC, applications in fields such as aerospace, bio-science
research, mechanical and fluid simulations, and energy exploration. Today, our
GPUs and networking accelerate many of the fastest supercomputers across the
world. In addition, the massively parallel compute architecture of our GPUs
and associated software are well suited for deep learning and machine
learning, powering the era of AI. While traditional CPU-based approaches no
longer deliver advances on the pace described by Moore's Law, NVIDIA
accelerated computing delivers performance improvements on a pace ahead of
Moore's Law, giving the industry a path forward.

Gamers choose NVIDIA GPUs to enjoy immersive, increasingly cinematic virtual
worlds. GPUs also help underpin the world's fastest growing spectator sport,
eSports, which attracts hundreds of millions of viewers to watch top-quality
live video gaming. In addition to serving the growing number of gamers, the
market for gaming GPUs is expanding because of the burgeoning population of
live streamers, broadcasters, artists and creators.

Researchers and developers use our GPUs to accelerate a wide range of
important applications, from simulating molecular dynamics to climate
forecasting. With support for more than 2,800 applications - including 23 of
the top 25 HPC applications - NVIDIA GPUs enable some of the most promising
areas of discovery, from climate prediction to materials science and from wind
tunnel simulation to genomics. Including GPUs and networking, NVIDIA powers
over 70% of the supercomputers on the global TOP500 list, including 23 of the
top 30 systems on the Green500 list.

4

* * *

Table of Contents

The world's leading cloud service providers, or CSPs, and consumer internet
companies use our GPUs and broader data center-scale accelerated computing
platforms to enable, accelerate or enrich the services they deliver to
billions of end-users, including search, recommendations, social networking,
online shopping, live video, translation, AI assistants, navigation, and cloud
computing.

A rapidly growing number of enterprises and startups across a broad range of
industries use our GPUs and software to bring automation to the products and
services they build. The transportation industry is turning to our platforms
for autonomous driving; the healthcare industry is leveraging them for
enhanced medical imaging and acceleration of drug discovery; and the financial
services industry is using them for fraud detection.

Professional designers use our GPUs and software to create visual effects in
movies and to design buildings and products ranging from cell phones to
commercial aircraft.

Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in
California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.

Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement

In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank Group Corp., or SoftBank, announced the
termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired
Arm Limited, or Arm, from SoftBank. The parties agreed to terminate because of
significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the
transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in
fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at
signing.

Our Businesses

We report our business results in two segments.

The Compute & Networking segment includes our Data Center accelerated
computing platform; networking; automotive AI Cockpit, autonomous driving
development agreements, and autonomous vehicle solutions; electric vehicle
computing platforms; Jetson for robotics and other embedded platforms; NVIDIA
AI Enterprise and other software; and cryptocurrency mining processors, or
CMP.

The Graphics segment includes GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW
game streaming service and related infrastructure, and solutions for gaming
platforms; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; virtual
GPU, or vGPU, software for cloud-based visual and virtual computing;
automotive platforms for infotainment systems; and Omniverse Enterprise
software for building and operating metaverse and 3D internet applications.

Our Markets

We specialize in markets in which our computing platforms can provide
tremendous acceleration for applications. These platforms incorporate
processors, interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to
deliver unique value. Our platforms address four large markets where our
expertise is critical: Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and
Automotive.

Data Center

The NVIDIA computing platform is focused on accelerating the most compute-
intensive workloads, such as AI, data analytics, graphics and scientific
computing, across hyperscale, cloud, enterprise, public sector, and edge data
centers. The platform consists of our energy efficient GPUs, data processing
units, or DPUs, interconnects and systems, our CUDA programming model, and a
growing body of software libraries, software development kits, or SDKs,
application frameworks and services, which are either available as part of the
platform or packaged and sold separately.

For both AI and HPC applications, the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform
greatly increases computer and data center performance and power efficiency
relative to conventional CPU-only approaches. In the field of AI, NVIDIA's
platform accelerates both deep learning and machine learning workloads. Deep
learning is a computer science approach where neural networks are trained to
recognize patterns from massive amounts of data in the form of images, sounds
and text - in some instances better than humans - and in turn provide
predictions in production use cases. Machine learning is a related approach
that leverages algorithms as well

5

* * *

Table of Contents

as data to learn how to make determinations or predictions. HPC, which
includes scientific computing, uses numerical computational approaches to
solve large and complex problems.

We are engaged with thousands of organizations working on AI in a multitude of
industries, from automating tasks such as consumer product and service
recommendations, to chatbots for the automation of or assistance with live
customer interactions, to enabling fraud detection in financial services, to
optimizing oil exploration and drilling. These organizations include the
world's leading consumer internet and cloud services companies, enterprises
and startups seeking to implement AI in transformative ways across multiple
industries. We partner with industry leaders to help transform their
applications or their computing platforms. We also have partnerships in
transportation, retail, healthcare, and manufacturing, among others, to
accelerate the adoption of AI.

At the foundation of the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform are our GPUs,
which excel at parallel workloads such as the training and inferencing of
neural networks. They are available in industry standard servers from every
major computer maker and CSP, as well as in our DGX AI supercomputer, a
purpose-built system for deep learning and GPU accelerated applications. To
facilitate customer adoption, we have also built other ready-to-use system
reference designs around our GPUs, including HGX for hyperscale and
supercomputing data centers, EGX for enterprise and edge computing, IGX for
high-precision edge AI, and AGX for autonomous machines.

In fiscal year 2023, we introduced the Hopper architecture of data center
GPUs, and started shipping the first Hopper-based GPU - the flagship H100.
Hopper includes a Transformer Engine, designed to accelerate the training of
AI transformer models by an order of magnitude over the prior generation. H100
is ideal for accelerating applications such as large language models, deep
recommender systems, genomics and complex digital twins.

NVIDIA will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and
through our network of partners. Examples of these services include NVIDIA DGX
Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI
models, and customizable pretrained AI models. NVIDIA has partnered with
leading cloud service providers to host these services in their data centers.

Our networking solutions include InfiniBand and Ethernet network adapters and
switches, related software, and cables. This has enabled us to architect end-
to-end data center-scale computing platforms that can interconnect thousands
of compute nodes with high-performance networking. While historically the
server was the unit of computing, as AI and HPC workloads have become
extremely large spanning thousands of compute nodes, the data center has
become the new unit of computing, with networking as an integral part.

Beyond GPUs, NVIDIA has expanded its data center processor portfolio to
include DPUs, currently shipping in the market, and CPUs with samples planned
to ship in the first half of fiscal year 2024. The NVIDIA Bluefield DPU is
supported by foundational data-center-infrastructure-on-a-chip software, or
DOCA, that lets developers build software-defined, hardware-accelerated
networking, security, storage and management applications for BlueField DPUs.
Partners supporting Bluefield include many of the top security, storage and
networking companies. We can optimize across the entire computing, networking
and storage stack to deliver data center-scale computing solutions. The Grace
CPU is designed for AI infrastructure and high-performance computing,
providing the highest performance and twice the memory bandwidth and energy-
efficiency compared to today's leading server chips.

While our approach starts with powerful chips, what makes it a full-stack
computing platform is our large body of software, including the CUDA parallel
programming model, the CUDA-X collection of application acceleration
libraries, Application Programming Interfaces, or APIs, SDKs and tools, and
domain-specific application frameworks. We also offer the NVIDIA GPU Cloud
registry, or NGC, a comprehensive catalog of easy-to-use, optimized software
stacks across a range of domains including scientific computing, deep
learning, and machine learning. With NGC, AI developers, researchers and data
scientists can get started with the development of AI and HPC applications and
deploy them on DGX systems, NVIDIA-Certified systems from our partners, or
with NVIDIA's cloud partners.

In addition to software that is delivered to customers as an integral part of
our data center computing platform, we offer paid licenses to NVIDIA AI
Enterprise, a comprehensive suite of enterprise-grade AI software; and NVIDIA
vGPU software for graphics-rich virtual desktops and workstations.

  

6

* * *

Table of Contents

Gaming

Gaming is the largest entertainment industry, with PC gaming as the
predominant platform. Many factors propel computer gaming's growth, including
new high production value games and franchises, the continued rise of
competitive gaming or eSports, social connectivity and the increasing
popularity of game streamers, modders, or gamers who create game
modifications, and creators.

Our gaming platforms leverage our GPUs and sophisticated software to enhance
the gaming experience with smoother, higher quality graphics. We developed
NVIDIA RTX to bring next generation graphics and AI to games. NVIDIA RTX
features ray tracing technology for real-time, cinematic-quality rendering.
Ray tracing, which has long been used for special effects in the movie
industry, is a computationally intensive technique that simulates the physical
behavior of light to achieve greater realism in computer-generated scenes.
NVIDIA RTX also features deep learning super sampling, or NVIDIA DLSS, our AI
technology that boosts frame rates while generating beautiful, sharp images
for games.

Our products for the gaming market include GeForce RTX and GeForce GTX GPUs
for gaming desktop and laptop PCs, GeForce NOW cloud gaming for playing PC
games on underpowered devices, SHIELD for high quality streaming on TV, as
well as system-on-chips (SOCs) and development services for game consoles.

In fiscal year 2023, we introduced the GeForce RTX 40 Series of gaming GPUs,
based on the Ada Lovelace architecture. The 40 Series features our third
generation RTX technology, third generation NVIDIA DLSS, and fourth generation
Tensor Cores to deliver up to 4X the performance of the previous generation.

Professional Visualization

We serve the Professional Visualization market by working closely with
independent software vendors, or ISVs, to optimize their offerings for NVIDIA
GPUs. Our GPU computing platform enhances productivity and introduces new
capabilities for critical workflows in many fields, such as design and
manufacturing and digital content creation. Design and manufacturing encompass
computer-aided design, architectural design, consumer-products manufacturing,
medical instrumentation, and aerospace. Digital content creation includes
professional video editing and post-production, special effects for films, and
broadcast-television graphics.

The NVIDIA RTX platform makes it possible to render film-quality,
photorealistic objects and environments with physically accurate shadows,
reflections and refractions using ray tracing in real-time. Many leading 3D
design and content creation applications developed by our ecosystem partners
now support RTX, allowing professionals to accelerate and transform their
workflows with NVIDIA RTX GPUs and software.

Digital images used in product design need to mirror reality. This requires
simulating the physical behavior of light and materials, or physically-based
rendering. NVIDIA Omniverse is a virtual world simulation and collaboration
platform for 3D workflows, such as building and operating metaverse and 3D
internet applications, available as a software subscription for enterprise use
and free for individual use. Omniverse, virtual reality, or VR, and augmented
reality, or AR, are being incorporated in a growing number of enterprise
applications. Virtual car showrooms, surgical training, architectural
walkthroughs, and bringing historical scenes to life all deploy these
technologies, powered by our GPUs.

Automotive

NVIDIA's Automotive market is comprised of AV, AI cockpit, electric vehicle
computing platforms, and infotainment platform solutions. Leveraging our
technology leadership in AI and building on our long-standing automotive
relationships, we are delivering a complete end-to-end solution for the AV
market under the DRIVE Hyperion brand. NVIDIA has demonstrated multiple
applications of AI within the car: AI can drive the car itself as a pilot in
fully autonomous mode or it can also be a co-pilot, assisting the human driver
while creating a safer driving experience.

NVIDIA is working with several hundred partners in the automotive ecosystem
including automakers, truck makers, tier-one suppliers, sensor manufacturers,
automotive research institutions, HD mapping companies, and startups to
develop and deploy AI systems for self-driving vehicles. Our unified AI
computing architecture starts with training deep neural networks using our
GPUs, and then running a full perception, fusion, planning and control stack
within the vehicle on the NVIDIA DRIVE Hyperion platform. The DRIVE Hyperion
platform consists of the high-performance, energy efficient DRIVE AGX
computing hardware, a reference sensor set that supports full self-driving
capability as well as an open, modular DRIVE Software

7

* * *

Table of Contents

platform. The DRIVE Software platform includes DRIVE Chauffeur for autonomous
driving, mapping and parking services, Drive Concierge for intelligent in-
vehicle experiences, and real time conversational AI capability based on
NVIDIA Omniverse Avatar software.

In addition, we offer a scalable data center-based simulation solution, NVIDIA
DRIVE Sim, based on NVIDIA Omniverse software, for digital cockpit
development, as well as for testing and validating a self-driving platform.
NVIDIA's unique end-to-end, software-defined approach is designed for
continuous innovation and continuous development, enabling cars to receive
over-the-air updates to add new features and capabilities throughout the life
of a vehicle.

Business Strategies

NVIDIA's key strategies that shape our overall business approach include:

Advancing the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform. NVIDIA's accelerated
computing platform can solve complex problems in significantly less time and
with lower power consumption than alternative computational approaches.
Indeed, it can help solve problems that were previously deemed unsolvable. We
work to deliver continued performance leaps that outpace Moore's Law by
leveraging innovation across the architecture, chip design, system,
interconnect, and software layers. This full-stack innovation approach allows
us to deliver order-of-magnitude performance advantages relative to legacy
approaches in our target markets, which include Data Center, Gaming,
Professional Visualization, and Automotive. While the computing requirements
of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying
architecture leveraging our GPUs, CUDA and networking technologies as the
fundamental building blocks. The programmable nature of our architecture
allows us to make leveraged investments in research and development: we can
support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with shared underlying
technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally
or by third-party developers and partners. We utilize this platform approach
in each of our target markets.

Extending our technology and platform leadership in AI. We provide a complete,
end-to-end accelerated computing platform for deep learning and machine
learning, addressing both training and inferencing. This includes GPUs,
interconnects, systems, our CUDA programming language, algorithms, libraries,
and other software. GPUs are uniquely suited to AI, and we will continue to
add AI-specific features to our GPU architecture to further extend our
leadership position. Our AI technology leadership is reinforced by our large
and expanding ecosystem in a virtuous cycle. Our GPU platforms are available
from virtually every major server maker and CSP, as well as on our own AI
supercomputer. There are 3.8 million developers worldwide using CUDA and our
other software tools to help deploy our technology in our target markets. We
evangelize AI through partnerships with hundreds of universities and over
13,000 startups through our Inception program. Additionally, our Deep Learning
Institute provides instruction on the latest techniques on how to design,
train, and deploy neural networks in applications using our accelerated
computing platform.

Extending our technology and platform leadership in computer graphics. We
believe that computer graphics is fundamental to the continued expansion and
evolution of computing. We apply our research and development resources to
enhance the user experience for consumer entertainment and professional
visualization applications, and create new virtual world and simulation
capabilities. Our technologies are instrumental in driving gaming forward, as
developers leverage our libraries and algorithms to deliver an optimized
gaming experience on our GeForce platform. Our computer graphics platforms
leverage not only our industry-leading GeForce and NVIDIA RTX GPUs, but also
optimized software stacks. For example, GeForce Experience enhances each
gamer's experience by optimizing their PC's settings, as well as enabling the
recording and sharing of gameplay. Our Studio drivers enhance and accelerate a
number of popular creative applications. Omniverse is real-time 3D design
collaboration and virtual world simulation software that empowers artists,
designers and creators to connect and collaborate in leading design
applications. We also enable interactive graphics applications - such as
games, movie and photo editing and design software - to be accessed by almost
any device, almost anywhere, through our cloud platforms such as vGPU for
enterprise and GeForce NOW for gaming.

Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform. We believe the advent of AV
will soon revolutionize the transportation industry. In our view, AI is the
key technology enabler of this opportunity, as the algorithms required for
autonomous driving - such as perception, localization, and planning - are too
complex for legacy hand-coded approaches and will use multiple trained neural
networks instead. Therefore, we provide a full functionally safe AI-based
hardware and software solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand, which
we are bringing to market through our partnerships with automotive original
equipment manufacturers, or

8

* * *

Table of Contents

OEMs, tier-1 suppliers, and start-ups. Our AV solution also includes the GPU-
based hardware required to train the neural networks before their in-vehicle
deployment, as well as to re-simulate their operation prior to any over-the-
air software updates. We believe our comprehensive, top-to-bottom and end-to-
end approach will enable the transportation industry to solve the complex
problems arising from the shift to autonomous driving.

Leveraging our intellectual property, or IP. We believe our IP is a valuable
asset that can be accessed by our customers and partners through license and
development agreements when they desire to build such capabilities directly
into their own products, or have us do so through a custom development. Such
license and development arrangements can further enhance the reach of our
technology.

Sales and Marketing

Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is key to achieving our objective
of providing markets with our high-performance and efficient computing
platforms and software. Our sales and marketing teams, located across our
global markets, work closely with end customers and various industry
ecosystems through our partner network. Our partner network incorporates each
industry's respective OEMs, original device manufacturers, or ODMs, system
builders, add-in board manufacturers, or AIBs, retailers/distributors, ISVs,
internet and CSPs, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 automotive suppliers,
mapping companies, start-ups, and other ecosystem participants.

Members of our sales team have technical expertise and product and industry
knowledge. We also employ a team of application engineers and solution
architects to assist our partner network in designing, testing, and qualifying
system designs that incorporate our platforms. We believe that the depth and
quality of our design support are key to improving our partner network's time-
to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction, and fostering
relationships that encourage our end customers and partner network to use the
next generation of our products within each platform.

To encourage the development of applications optimized for our platforms and
software, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships in the
software development community. Engineering and marketing personnel engage
with key software developers to promote and discuss our platforms, as well as
to ascertain individual product requirements and solve technical problems. Our
developer program makes our products available to developers prior to launch
in order to encourage the development of AI frameworks, SDKs, and APIs for
software applications and game titles that are optimized for our platforms.
Our Deep Learning Institute provides in-person and online training for
developers in industries and organizations around the world to build AI and
accelerated computing applications that leverage our platforms.

As NVIDIA's business has evolved from a focus primarily on gaming products to
broader markets, and from chips to platforms, systems and software, so, too,
have our avenues to market. Thus, in addition to sales to customers in our
partner network, certain of our products are also sold direct to CSPs,
enterprise customers, retail channels and consumers.

Seasonality

Our computing platforms serve a diverse set of markets such as consumer
gaming, enterprise and cloud data centers, professional workstations, and
automotive. Our consumer products typically see stronger revenue in the second
half of our fiscal year. In addition, based on the production schedules of key
customers, some of our products for notebooks and game consoles typically
generate stronger revenue in the second and third quarters, and weaker revenue
in the fourth and first quarters. In fiscal year 2023, our supply exceeded our
demand in several areas, and our revenue did not follow historical seasonal
patterns. Historical seasonality trends may not repeat.

Manufacturing

We do not manufacture semiconductors used for our products. Instead, we
utilize a fabless manufacturing strategy, whereby we employ key suppliers for
all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication,
assembly, testing, and packaging. This strategy uses the expertise of
industry-leading suppliers that are certified by the International
Organization for Standardization in such areas as fabrication, assembly,
quality control and assurance, reliability, and testing. Additionally, we can
avoid many of the significant costs and risks associated with owning and
operating manufacturing operations. While we may directly procure certain raw
materials used in the production of our products, such as memory, substrates
and a variety of components, our suppliers are responsible for procurement of
most of the raw materials used in the

9

* * *

Table of Contents

production of our products. As a result, we can focus our resources on product
design, additional quality assurance, marketing, and customer support. We have
placed non-cancellable inventory orders for certain product components in
advance of our historical lead times, paid premiums and provided deposits to
secure future supply and capacity and may need to continue to do so in the
future.

  

We have expanded our supplier relationships to build redundancy and resilience
in our operations. We utilize suppliers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Company Limited and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd, to produce our
semiconductor wafers. We then utilize independent subcontractors and contract
manufacturers, such as Amkor Technology, BYD Auto Co. Ltd., or BYD Auto, Hon
Hai Precision Industry Co., or Hon Hai, King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd., Omni
Logistics, LLC, Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd., and Wistron
Corporation to perform assembly, testing, and packaging of most of our
products and platforms. We use contract manufacturers such as Flex Ltd., Jabil
Inc., and Universal Scientific Industrial Co., Ltd., to manufacture our
standard and custom adapter card products and switch systems, and Fabrinet to
manufacture our networking cables. We purchase substrates from Ibiden Co.
Ltd., Kinsus Interconnect Technology Corporation, and Unimicron Technology
Corporation, and memory from Micron Technology, Samsung Semiconductor, Inc.,
or Samsung, and SK Hynix. We often consign key components or materials such as
the GPU, SoC, memory, and integrated circuit to the contract manufacturers.

We typically receive semiconductor products from our subcontractors, perform
incoming quality assurance and configuration using test equipment purchased
from industry-leading suppliers such as Advantest America Inc. and Chroma ATE
Inc., and then ship the semiconductors to contract manufacturers, such as BYD
Auto and Hon Hai, distributors, motherboard and add-in card, or AIC, customers
from our third-party warehouses in Hong Kong, Israel, and the United States.
Generally, these manufacturers assemble and test the boards based on our
design kit and test specifications, and then ship our products to retailers,
system builders, or OEMs as motherboard and AIC solutions.

Competition

The market for our products is intensely competitive and is characterized by
rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. We believe that
the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of
product offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels,
software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing
capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs. We believe that our
ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to
anticipate the features and functions that customers and partners will demand
and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at
acceptable levels of quality and at competitive prices. We expect competition
to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with
products that may be lower priced than ours or may provide better performance
or additional features not provided by our products. In addition, it is
possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and
acquire significant market share.

A significant source of competition comes from companies that provide or
intend to provide GPUs, CPUs, DPUs, embedded SoCs, and other accelerated, AI
computing processor products, and providers of semiconductor-based high-
performance interconnect products based on InfiniBand, Ethernet, Fibre Channel
and proprietary technologies. Some of our competitors may have greater
marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and
may be more able to adapt to customer or technological changes. We expect an
increasingly competitive environment in the future.

Our current competitors include:

•suppliers and licensors of hardware and software for discrete and integrated
GPUs, custom chips and other accelerated computing solutions, including
solutions offered for AI, such as Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or AMD, and
Intel Corporation, or Intel;

  

•large cloud services companies with internal teams designing chips and
software that incorporate accelerated or AI computing functionality as part of
their internal solutions or platforms, such as Alibaba Group, Alphabet Inc.,
Amazon, Inc., and Baidu, Inc.;

•suppliers of Arm-based CPUs and companies that incorporate CPUs as part of
their internal solutions or platforms;

10

* * *

Table of Contents

•suppliers of SoC products that are used in servers or embedded into
automobiles, autonomous machines, and gaming devices, such as Ambarella, Inc.,
AMD, Broadcom Inc., or Broadcom, Intel, Qualcomm Incorporated, Renesas
Electronics Corporation, and Samsung, or companies with internal teams
designing SoC products for internal use, such as Tesla, Inc.; and

•suppliers of interconnect, switch cable solutions, and DPUs such as AMD,
Applied Optoelectronics, Inc., Arista Networks, Broadcom, Cisco Systems, Inc.,
or Cisco, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Intel, Juniper Networks, Inc.,
Lumentum Holdings, and Marvell Technology Group, as well as internal teams of
system vendors and large cloud services companies.

Patents and Proprietary Rights

We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets,
employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements
to protect our IP in the United States and internationally. Our currently
issued patents have expiration dates from March 2023 to June 2045. We have
numerous patents issued, allowed, and pending in the United States and in
foreign jurisdictions. Our patents and pending patent applications primarily
relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our
products. We also rely on international treaties, organizations, and foreign
laws to protect our IP. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our
products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in
Asia, may not protect our products or IP rights to the same extent as the laws
of the United States. This decreased protection makes the possibility of
piracy of our technology and products more likely. We continuously assess
whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and
technologies based on such factors as:

•the location in which our products are manufactured;

•our strategic technology or product directions in different countries;

•the degree to which IP laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different
jurisdictions; and

•the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations
in particular countries and regions.

We have licensed technology from third parties and expect to continue to enter
into such license agreements.

Government Regulations

Our worldwide business activities are subject to various laws, rules, and
regulations of the United States as well as of foreign governments.

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government announced
new license requirements that impact certain exports to China (including Hong
Kong and Macau) and Russia of some of our data center products. The impact of
the new license requirements is difficult to quantify, and it may be
challenging for us to manage our operations and forecast our operating results
due to these requirements. Refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors- Risks Related to
Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters" for a discussion of this
potential impact.

Additionally, our acquisitions may be subject to government regulatory
reviews, and the cost to comply with such regulations or costs incurred where
regulatory challenges prevent the completion of an acquisition could have a
material impact on our business. In February 2022, we announced the
termination of the Share Purchase Agreement by which we would have acquired
Arm due to significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the
transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in
fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at
signing.

Compliance with laws, rules, and regulations has not otherwise had a material
effect upon our capital expenditures, results of operations, or competitive
position and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for
environmental control facilities. Compliance with existing or future
governmental regulations, including, but not limited to, those pertaining to
IP ownership and infringement, taxes, import and export requirements and
tariffs, anti-corruption, business acquisitions, foreign exchange controls and
cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, competition and
antitrust, advertising, employment, product regulations, cybersecurity,
environmental, health and safety requirements, the responsible use of AI,

11

* * *

Table of Contents

climate change, cryptocurrency, and consumer laws, could increase our costs,
impact our competitive position, and otherwise may have a material adverse
impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations in
subsequent periods. Refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for a discussion of these
potential impacts.

Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance

NVIDIA invents computing technologies that improve lives and address global
challenges. Our goal is to integrate sound environmental, social and corporate
governance, or ESG, principles and practices into every aspect of the Company.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors is
responsible for reviewing and discussing with management our practices related
to ESG. We assess our programs annually in consideration of stakeholder
expectations, market trends, and business risks and opportunities. These
issues are important for our continued business success and reflect the topics
of highest concern to NVIDIA and our stakeholders.

The following section and the Human Capital Management Section below provide
an overview of our principles and practices. More information can be found on
the Corporate Responsibility section of our website and in our annual
Corporate Responsibility Report, or CR Report. Information contained on our
website or in our annual CR Report is not incorporated by reference into this
or any other report we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or
the SEC. Refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for a discussion of risks and
uncertainties we face related to ESG.

Climate Change

In the area of sustainability, we address our climate impacts across our
product lifecycle and assess risks, including current and emerging regulations
and market impacts.

In our CR Report published in July 2022, we published metrics related to our
environmental impact for fiscal year 2022. Fiscal year 2023 metrics are
expected to be published in the first half of fiscal year 2024. There has been
no material impact to our capital expenditures, results of operations or
competitive position associated with global sustainability regulations,
compliance, or costs from sourcing renewable energy. By the end of fiscal year
2025, our goal is to purchase or generate enough renewable energy to match
100% of our global electricity usage for our offices and data centers.

Whether it is creation of technology to power next-generation laptops or
designs to support high-performance supercomputers, improving energy
efficiency is important in our research, development, and design processes.
GPUs are inherently more energy efficient than other forms of computing
because they are optimized for throughput, performance per watt, and certain
AI workloads. The energy efficiency of our products is evidenced by our
continued strong presence on the Green500 list of the most energy-efficient
systems. We powered 23 of the top 30 most energy efficient systems, including
the top supercomputer, on the November 2022 Green500 list.

We plan to build Earth-2, a digital twin of the Earth on NVIDIA AI and NVIDIA
Omniverse platforms. Earth-2 will enable scientists, companies, and policy
makers to do ultra-high-resolution predictions of the impact of climate change
and explore mitigation and adaptation strategies.

Human Capital Management

We believe that our employees are our greatest assets, and they play a key
role in creating long-term value for our stakeholders. As of the end of fiscal
year 2023, we had 26,196 employees in 35 countries, 19,532 were engaged in
research and development and 6,664 were engaged in sales, marketing,
operations, and administrative positions.

To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must
recruit, develop, and retain talented employees, including qualified
executives, scientists, engineers, and technical and non-technical staff.

Recruitment

As the demand for global technical talent continues to be competitive, we have
grown our technical workforce and have been successful in attracting top
talent to NVIDIA. We have attracted strong talent globally with our
differentiated hiring strategies for university, professional, executive and
diverse recruits. The COVID-19 pandemic created expanded hiring opportunities
in new geographies and provided increased

12

* * *

Table of Contents

flexibility for employees to work from locations of their choice. Our
workforce is about 80% technical and about 50% hold advanced degrees.

Earlier in fiscal year 2023, we slowed our hiring to focus on our current
employees and manage costs. We maintain a connection for global talent from
universities through on-campus collaborations with professors and student
organizations, as well as engagement with technical organizations and
participation at industry conferences. Our own employees help to surface top
talent, with over 37% of our new hires in fiscal year 2023 coming from
employee referrals.

Development and Retention

To support employee development, we provide opportunities to learn on-the-job
through training programs, one on one coaching and ongoing feedback. We have a
library of live and on-demand learning experiences that include workshops,
panel discussions, and speaker forums. We curate learning paths focused on our
most common development needs and constantly upgrade our offerings to ensure
that our employees are exposed to the most current programs and technologies
available. We offer tuition reimbursement programs to subsidize educational
programs and advanced certifications. We encourage internal mobility through
career coaching that advises employees on developmental activities and
internal transfer opportunities. We have implemented specifically designed
mentoring and development programs for women and employees from traditionally
underrepresented groups to ensure widespread readiness for future advancement.

To evaluate employee sentiment and engagement, we use pulse surveys, a
suggestion box, and an anonymous third-party platform. Pulse surveys help us
gain insight into employee experience and provide ideas so that we can
prioritize areas to take action. The suggestion box is an always-on,
interactive tool where employees share their thoughts about making our company
a better place to work. The anonymous third-party platform is designed to
protect the identity of the reporter and provide a mechanism for reporters to
follow an investigation and receive responses.

We want NVIDIA to be a place where people can build their careers over their
lifetime. Our employees tend to come and stay. In fiscal year 2023, our
overall turnover rate was 5.3%.

Compensation, Benefits, and Well-Being

Our compensation program rewards performance and is structured to encourage
employees to invest in the Company's future. Employees receive equity, except
where unavailable due to local regulations, that is tied to the value of our
stock price and vests over time to retain employees while simultaneously
aligning their interests with those of our shareholders.

We offer comprehensive benefits to support our employees' and their families'
physical health, well-being and financial health, including 401(k) programs in
the U.S., statutory pension programs outside the U.S., our employee stock
purchase program, flexible work hours and time off, and programs to address
mental health, stress, and time-management challenges. We evaluate our benefit
offerings globally and aim to provide comparable support across the regions
where we operate. We are committed to providing tailored benefits based on
community needs, including assistance for military members, additional mental
health benefits, and support for new birth parents, and those who wish to
become parents.

Diversity and Inclusion

We believe that diverse teams fuel innovation, and we are committed to
creating an inclusive culture that supports all employees.

When recruiting for new talent or managing current talent, we focus on
recruiting, developing, and retaining a more diverse workforce with a focus on
those historically underrepresented in the technology field, including women,
Black/African American, and Hispanic/Latino candidates.

To this end, we have been:

•Partnering with institutions and professional organizations serving
historically underrepresented communities;

•Assigning dedicated recruiting teams to shepherd underrepresented candidates
through the interview process;

13

* * *

Table of Contents

•Embedding inclusion recruiting partners throughout the business to help align
candidates with internal opportunities;

•Supporting the development of women employees through programs aimed at
building a pipeline of future leaders;

•Providing peer support and executive sponsors for nine internal community
resource groups;

•Providing training and education to managers and peers on fostering
supportive environments and recruiting for diversity;

•Ensuring we have and review a diverse pool of candidates for requisitions;
and

•Measuring year over year progress and providing leadership visibility on
diversity efforts.

As of the end of fiscal year 2023, our global workforce was 80% male, 19%
female, and 1% not declared, with 6% of our workforce in the United States
composed of Black or African American and Hispanic or Latino employees.

Health and COVID-19

We supported our people and their families in making their health and safety a
top priority during fiscal year 2023 and throughout the COVID-19 pandemic to
keep our workforce safe.

Hybrid Working Environment

We support a hybrid work environment, understanding that many employees want
the flexibility to work in the office or from home, and make that decision
based on the conditions around them at any point in time.

Steps we took to support employees working from home include:

•Home-focused health and well-being programs;

•Learning and development resources on how to work, lead and manage remotely;
and

•Opportunities for employees to socially connect with one another virtually.

During fiscal year 2024, we will continue a flexible work environment and have
instituted Company-wide "rest days" for employees to recharge.

Information About Our Executive Officers

The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers,
their ages and positions as of February 17, 2023:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Name| | Age| | Position  
Jen-Hsun Huang| | 60| | President and Chief Executive Officer  
Colette M. Kress| | 55| | Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
Ajay K. Puri| | 68| | Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations  
Debora Shoquist| | 68| | Executive Vice President, Operations  
Timothy S. Teter| | 56| | Executive Vice President and General Counsel  
  
Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in 1993 and has served as our President,
Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since our
inception. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation,
a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including
as Director of Coreware, the business unit responsible for LSI's SOC. From
1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for AMD, a semiconductor
company. Mr. Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an
M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford University.

Colette M. Kress joined NVIDIA in 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Kress most recently served as Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Business Technology and
Operations Finance organization at Cisco Systems, Inc., a networking equipment
company, since 2010. At Cisco, Ms. Kress was responsible for financial
strategy, planning, reporting and business

14

* * *

Table of Contents

development for all business segments, engineering and operations. From 1997
to 2010 Ms. Kress held a variety of positions at Microsoft Corporation, or
Microsoft, a software company, including, beginning in 2006, Chief Financial
Officer of the Server and Tools division, where Ms. Kress was responsible for
financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the
division. Prior to joining Microsoft, Ms. Kress spent eight years at Texas
Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of
finance positions. Ms. Kress holds a B.S. degree in Finance from University of
Arizona and an M.B.A. degree from Southern Methodist University.

Ajay K. Puri joined NVIDIA in 2005 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales
and became Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations in 2009. Prior
to NVIDIA, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over
a 22-year career at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a computing systems company. Mr.
Puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development
positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, an information technology company, Booz
Allen Hamilton Inc., a management and technology consulting company, and Texas
Instruments Incorporated. Mr. Puri holds a B.S.E.E. degree from the University
of Minnesota, an M.S.E.E. degree from the California Institute of Technology
and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School.

Debora Shoquist joined NVIDIA in 2007 as Senior Vice President of Operations
and in 2009 became Executive Vice President of Operations. Prior to NVIDIA,
Ms. Shoquist served from 2004 to 2007 as Executive Vice President of
Operations at JDS Uniphase Corp., a provider of communications test and
measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications
industry. She served from 2002 to 2004 as Senior Vice President and General
Manager of the Electro-Optics business at Coherent, Inc., a manufacturer of
commercial and scientific laser equipment. Previously, she worked at Quantum
Corp., a data protection company, as President of the Personal Computer Hard
Disk Drive Division, and at Hewlett-Packard Corp. Ms. Shoquist holds a B.S.
degree in Electrical Engineering from Kansas State University and a B.S.
degree in Biology from Santa Clara University.

Timothy S. Teter joined NVIDIA in 2017 as Senior Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary and became Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary in February 2018. Prior to NVIDIA, Mr. Teter spent more than two
decades at the law firm of Cooley LLP, where he focused on litigating patent
and technology related matters. Prior to attending law school, he worked as an
engineer at Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, an aerospace company. Mr.
Teter holds a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of
California at Davis and a J.D. degree from Stanford Law School.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on or
through our website, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC's website,
http://www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our
web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

In evaluating NVIDIA, the following risk factors should be considered in
addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Purchasing or owning NVIDIA common stock involves investment risks including,
but not limited to, the risks described below. Any one of the following risks
could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or
reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline, and you may lose all
or a part of your investment. Additional risks, trends and uncertainties not
presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also
harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.

Risk Factors Summary

Risks Related to Our Industry and Markets

•Failure to meet the evolving needs of our industry and markets may adversely
impact our financial results.

15

* * *

Table of Contents

•Competition in our current and target markets could cause us to lose market
share and revenue.

Risks Related to Demand, Supply and Manufacturing

•Failure to estimate customer demand properly has led and could lead to
mismatches between supply and demand.

•Dependency on third-party suppliers and their technology reduces our control
over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development,
enhancement, and product delivery schedules and could harm our business.

•Defects in our products have caused and could cause us to incur significant
expenses to remediate and can damage our business.

Risks Related to Our Global Operating Business

•Adverse economic conditions may harm our business.

•International operations are a significant part of our business, and
economic, political, business, and other changes in the regions in which we
operate may expose us to risks that could harm our business.

•Product, system security, and data breaches and cyber-attacks could disrupt
our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, stock price and
reputation.

•Business disruptions could harm our operations and financial results.

•Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business.

•We may not be able to realize the potential benefits of business investments
or acquisitions, nor successfully integrate acquisition targets.

•A significant amount of our revenue stems from a limited number of customers
and could be adversely affected if we lose or are prevented from selling to
any of these customers.

•We may be unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key
employees.

•Modification or interruption of our business processes and information
systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.

•The COVID-19 pandemic has affected and could continue to have a material
adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

•Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future
fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of
securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline.

Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters

•We are subject to complex laws, rules and regulations, and political and
other actions, which may adversely impact our business.

•Increased scrutiny from shareholders, regulators, and others regarding our
environmental, social and governance responsibilities could result in
financial, reputational and operational harm.

•Issues relating to the responsible use of our technologies, including AI, may
result in reputational and financial harm and liability.

•Adequately protecting our IP rights could be costly, and our ability to
compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful or if we are prohibited from
making or selling our products.

•We are subject to stringent and changing data privacy and security laws,
rules, regulations, and other obligations. Privacy or security concerns
relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter
customers, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings and liability.

16

* * *

Table of Contents

•Our operating results may be adversely impacted by additional tax
liabilities, higher than expected tax rates and other tax-related factors.

•Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation,
investigations and regulatory proceedings.

•Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows
from operations and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling
our contractual obligations.

•Delaware law, provisions in our governing documents, and our agreement with
Microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control.

Risk Factors

Risks Related to Our Industry and Markets

Failure to meet the evolving needs of our industry and markets may adversely
impact our financial results.

Our accelerated computing platforms experience rapid changes in technology,
customer requirements, competitive products, and industry standards.

Our success depends on our ability to:

•timely identify industry changes, adapt our strategies, and develop new or
enhance existing products and technologies that meet the evolving needs of
these markets, including due to unexpected changes in industry standards or
disruptive technological innovation that could render our products
incompatible with products developed by other companies;

•develop new products and technologies through investments in research and
development;

•launch new offerings with new business models including standalone software,
cloud solutions, and software-, infrastructure-, or platform-as-a-service
solutions;

•expand the ecosystem for our products and technologies;

•meet evolving and prevailing customer and industry safety and compliance
standards;

•manage product and software lifecycles to maintain customer and end user
satisfaction;

•develop, acquire, and maintain the internal and external infrastructure
needed to scale our business, including our acquisitions integrations,
customer support, e-commerce, IP licensing capabilities and cloud service
capacity; and

•complete technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing investments
for some of the above activities.

We invest in research and development in markets where we have a limited
operating history, which may not produce meaningful revenue for several years,
if at all. If we fail to develop or monetize new products and technologies, or
if they do not become widely adopted, our financial results could be adversely
affected. Obtaining design wins may involve a lengthy process and depend on
our ability to anticipate and provide features and functionality that
customers will demand. They also do not guarantee revenue. Failure to obtain a
design win may prevent us from obtaining future design wins in subsequent
generations. We cannot ensure that the products and technologies we bring to
market will provide value to our customers and partners. If we fail any of
these key success criteria, our financial results may be harmed.

We will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and
through our network of partners. Examples of these services include NVIDIA DGX
Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI
models, and customizable pretrained AI models. NVIDIA has partnered with
leading cloud service providers to host these services in their data centers,
and we entered into multi-year cloud service agreements in the second half of
fiscal year 2023 to support these offerings and our research and development
activities. NVIDIA AI cloud services may not be successful and will take time,
resources and investment. We also offer or plan to offer standalone software
solutions for AI including NVIDIA AI Enterprise, NVIDIA Omniverse, NVIDIA
DRIVE for automotive, and several other software solutions. These new

17

* * *

Table of Contents

business models or strategies may not be successful and we may fail to sell
any meaningful standalone software or as-a-service solutions. We may incur
significant costs and may not achieve any significant revenue from these
offerings.

Competition in our current and target markets could cause us to lose market
share and revenue.

Our target markets remain competitive, and competition may intensify with
expanding and changing product and service offerings, industry standards,
customer needs, new entrants and consolidations. Our competitors' products,
services and technologies, including those mentioned above in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, may be cheaper or provide better functionality or
features than ours, which has resulted and may in the future result in lower
than expected selling prices for our products. Some of our competitors operate
their own fabrication facilities, have longer operating histories, larger
customer bases, more comprehensive IP portfolios and patent protections, new
designs and more design wins, and greater financial, sales, marketing and
distribution resources than we do. These competitors may be able to acquire
market share and/or prevent us from doing so, more effectively identify and
capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end user customer trends,
more quickly transition their products, and secure sufficient foundry capacity
and packaging materials during a supply-constrained environment, which could
harm our business. Some of our customers have in-house expertise and internal
development capabilities similar to some of ours and can use or develop their
own solutions to replace those we are providing. For example, others may offer
cloud-based services that compete with our AI cloud service offerings, and we
may not be able to establish market share sufficient to achieve scale
necessary to meet our business objectives. If we are unable to successfully
compete in this environment, demand for our products, services and
technologies could decrease, which would cause our revenue to decline.

Risks Related to Demand, Supply and Manufacturing

Failure to estimate customer demand properly has led and could lead to
mismatches between supply and demand.

We use third parties to manufacture and assemble our products, and we have had
and may in the future have long manufacturing lead times. We are not provided
guaranteed wafer, component and capacity supply, and our supply deliveries and
production may be non-linear within a quarter or year. If our estimates of
customer demand are ultimately inaccurate, as we have experienced from time to
time, there could be a significant mismatch between supply and demand. This
mismatch has resulted in both product shortages and excess inventory, has
varied across our market platforms, and has significantly harmed our financial
results.

We build finished products and maintain inventory in advance of anticipated
demand. While we have in the past entered and may in the future enter into
long-term supply and capacity commitments, we may not be able to secure
sufficient commitments for capacity to address our business needs or our long-
term demand expectations may change. Additionally, our ability to sell certain
products has been and could be impeded if components from third parties that
are necessary for the finished product are not available. In periods of
shortages impacting the semiconductor industry and/or limited supply or
capacity in our supply chain, the lead times on our orders may be extended. We
have previously experienced extended lead times of more than 12 months. We
have paid premiums and provided deposits to secure future supply and capacity,
which have increased our product costs and may continue to do so. We may not
have the ability to reduce our supply commitments at the same rate or at all
if our revenue declines.

Demand for our products is based on many factors in addition to the lead times
described above that have caused and/or could in the future cause us to either
underestimate or overestimate our customers' future demand for our products,
or otherwise cause a mismatch between supply and demand for our products and
impact the timing and volume of our revenue, including:

•competing technologies and competitor product releases and announcements;

•changes in business and economic conditions resulting in decreased end
demand;

•sudden or sustained government lockdowns or actions to control case spread of
COVID-19 or other global or local health issues;

•rapidly changing technology or customer requirements;

•time to market;

18

* * *

Table of Contents

•new product introductions and transitions resulting in less demand for
existing products;

•new or unexpected end use cases;

•increase in demand for competitive products, including competitive actions;

•business decisions made by third parties;

•the demand for accelerated or AI-related cloud services, including our own
software and AI cloud service offerings;

•the demand for cryptocurrency mining; or

•government actions or changes in governmental policies, such as increased
restrictions on gaming usage.

Our supply, which includes inventory on hand, purchase obligations and prepaid
supply agreements, has grown significantly due to current supply chain
conditions, complexity of our products, and recent reductions in demand. At
the end of fiscal year 2023, purchase obligations and prepaid supply
agreements represented more than half of our total supply. We may incur
inventory provisions if our inventory or supply commitments are misaligned
with demand for our products.

Our demand predictions may not be correct, as we have experienced from time to
time. Product transitions are complex and frequently negatively impact our
revenue as we often ship both new and legacy architecture products
simultaneously and we and our channel partners prepare to ship and support new
products. Our architecture transitions of Data Center, Professional
Visualization, and Gaming products may impair our ability to predict demand
and impact our supply mix. Qualification time for new products, customers
anticipating product transitions and channel partners reducing channel
inventory of legacy architectures ahead of new product introductions can
create reductions or volatility in our revenue. We have experienced and may in
the future experience reduced demand for current generation architectures when
customers anticipate transitions, and we may be unable to sell multiple
product architectures at the same time for current and future architecture
transitions. While we have managed prior product transitions and have
previously sold multiple product architectures at the same time, these
transitions are difficult and prior trends may not continue. If we are unable
to execute our architectural transitions as planned for any reason, our
financial results may be negatively impacted.

We sell most of our products through channel partners, who sell to
distributors, retailers, and/or end customers. As a result, the decisions made
by our channel partners, distributors, retailers, and in response to changing
market conditions and changes in end user demand for our products have
impacted and could in the future continue to impact our ability to properly
forecast demand, particularly as they are based on estimates provided by
various downstream parties.

If we underestimate our customers' future demand for our products, our foundry
partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production
and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill orders on a
timely basis. Even if we are able to increase production levels to meet
customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely
manner, or our contract manufacturers may experience supply constraints. If we
fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our
customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market
share and our reputation could be harmed.

If we overestimate our customers' future demand for our products, or if
customers cancel or defer orders or choose to purchase from our competitors,
we may not be able to reduce our inventory or other contractual purchase
commitments. In the past, we have experienced a reduction in average selling
prices, including due to channel pricing programs that we have implemented and
may continue to implement, as a result of our overestimation of future demand,
and we may need to continue these reductions. We have had to increase prices
for certain of our products as a result of our suppliers' increase in prices,
and we may need to continue to do so for other products in the future. We have
also written-down our inventory, incurred cancellation penalties, and recorded
impairments. These impacts were amplified by our placement of non-cancellable
and non-returnable purchasing terms, well in advance of our historical lead
times and could be exacerbated if we need to make changes to the design of
future products. The risk of these impacts has increased as our purchase
obligations and prepaids have grown and become a greater portion of our total
supply while our

19

* * *

Table of Contents

revenue has sequentially declined. All of these factors may negatively impact
our gross margins and financial results.

We build technology and products for use cases and applications that may be
new or may not yet exist. Examples include our Omniverse platform and third-
party large language models and generative models. Our demand estimates for
these use cases and applications can be incorrect and create volatility in our
revenue or supply levels, and we may not be able to generate any revenue from
these use cases and applications.

Challenges in estimating demand could become more pronounced or volatile in
the future on both a global and regional basis. Extended lead times may occur
if we experience other supply constraints caused by natural disasters,
pandemics or other events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition,
geopolitical tensions, such as those involving Taiwan and China, which
comprise a significant portion of our revenue and where we have suppliers,
contract manufacturers, and assembly partners who are critical to our supply
continuity, could have a material adverse impact on us.

The use of our GPUs for other than that for which they were designed and
marketed, including new and unexpected use cases, has impacted and can in the
future impact demand for our products, including by leading to inconsistent
spikes and drops in demand. For example, a number of years ago, our Gaming
GPUs began to be used for digital currency mining, including blockchain-based
platforms such as Ethereum. It is difficult for us to estimate with any
reasonable degree of precision, the past or current impact of cryptocurrency
mining, or forecast the future impact of cryptocurrency mining, on demand for
our products. Volatility in the cryptocurrency market, including new compute
technologies, price changes in cryptocurrencies, government cryptocurrency
policies and regulations, new cryptocurrency standards, and changes in the
method of verifying blockchain transactions, has impacted and can in the
future impact cryptocurrency mining and demand for our products and can
further impact our ability to estimate demand for our products. Changes to
cryptocurrency standards and processes including, but not limited to, the
recently implemented Ethereum 2.0 merge may decrease the usage of GPUs for
Ethereum mining as well as create increased aftermarket sales of our GPUs,
which could negatively impact retail prices for our GPUs and reduce demand for
our new GPUs. We previously introduced Lite Hash Rate, or LHR, GeForce GPUs
with limited Ethereum mining capability and provided CMP products in an effort
to address demand from gamers and direct miners to CMP. With the Ethereum 2.0
merge, NVIDIA Ampere and Ada Lovelace architectures no longer include LHR. In
addition, our new products or previously sold products may be resold online or
on the unauthorized "gray market," which also makes demand forecasting
difficult. Gray market products and reseller marketplaces compete with our new
products and distribution channels.

Additionally, we depend on developers and other third parties to build
accelerated computing applications that leverage our platforms. We also rely
on third-party content providers and publishers to make their content
available on our platforms such as GeForce NOW. Failure by developers to build
applications that leverage our platforms, or failure by third-party content
providers or publishers to make their content available on reasonable terms or
at all for use by our customers or end users on our platforms, could adversely
affect customer demand.

Dependency on third-party suppliers and their technology to manufacture,
assemble, test, package or design our products reduces our control over
product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development, enhancement
and product delivery schedules and could harm our business.

We depend on foundries to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their
fabrication equipment and techniques. We do not assemble, test or package our
products, but instead contract with independent subcontractors. We also rely
on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design,
simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. The
design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for greater
functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available
software development tools. We face several risks which have adversely
affected or could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand and
scale our supply chain, negatively impact longer-term demand for our products
and services, and adversely affect our business operations, gross margin,
revenue and/or financial results, including:

•lack of guaranteed supply of wafer, component and capacity or decommitment
and potential higher wafer and component prices, from incorrectly estimating
demand and failing to place orders with our suppliers with sufficient
quantities or in a timely manner;

20

* * *

Table of Contents

•failure by our foundries or contract manufacturers to procure raw materials
or to provide adequate levels of manufacturing or test capacity for our
products;

•failure by our foundries to develop, obtain or successfully implement high
quality process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry
process technologies such as advanced process node technologies and memory
designs needed to manufacture our products;

•limited number and geographic concentration of global suppliers, foundries,
contract manufacturers, assembly and test providers, and memory manufacturers;

•loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a
result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor and commencing volume
production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change
a supplier;

•lack of direct control over product quantity, quality and delivery schedules;

•suppliers or their suppliers failing to supply high quality products and/or
making changes to their products without our qualification;

•delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or
higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our
competitors' or other customers' orders over ours;

•requirements to place orders that are not cancellable upon changes in demand
or requirements to prepay for supply in advance;

•low manufacturing yields resulting from a failure in our product design or a
foundry's proprietary process technology; and

•disruptions in manufacturing, assembly and other processes due to closures
related to heat waves or other natural disasters and electricity conservation
efforts.

Defects in our products have caused and could cause us to incur significant
expenses to remediate, which can damage our reputation and cause us to lose
market share.

Our hardware and software product offerings are complex and they have in the
past and may in the future contain defects or security vulnerabilities, or
experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues
in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. These
risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets,
technologies and applications or as new versions are released. These risks
further increase when we rely on partners to supply and manufacture components
that are used in our products, as these arrangements reduce our direct control
over production. Although arrangements with component providers may contain
provisions for product defect expense reimbursement, we generally remain
responsible to the customer for warranty product defects that may occur from
time to time. Some failures in our products or services have been in the past
and may in the future be only discovered after a product or service has been
shipped or used. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products or services
could result in loss of data or intangible property, or expose our end
customers to unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy malicious
software programs that could attack our products or services. Defects or
failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial
damage to the products or the product in which our device has been integrated
by OEMs, ODMs, AIBs and automotive manufacturers and tier 1 automotive
suppliers, and to the user of such end product. Any such defect may cause us
to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs as part
of a product recall or otherwise, write-off the value of related inventory,
and divert the attention of our engineering and management personnel from our
product development efforts to find and correct the issue. Our efforts to
remedy these issues may not be timely or satisfactory to our customers. An
error or defect in new products, releases, or related software drivers after
commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market
acceptance, loss of design wins, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a
product or market, and harm to our relationships with existing and prospective
customers and partners and consumers' perceptions of our brand, which would in
turn negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or
financial results. We may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or
consumers, including for costs to repair or replace products in the field or
in connection with indemnification obligations, or pay fines imposed by
regulatory agencies.

21

* * *

Table of Contents

For example, a defect was identified in a third-party component embedded in
certain Data Center products. This defect has had, and other defects may in
the future have, an adverse effect on our cost and supply of components and
finished goods. These costs could be significant in future periods. We
recorded a net warranty liability during fiscal year 2023 primarily in
connection with this defect. While we believe we have accurately recorded for
warranty obligations, we may need to record additional amounts in the future
if our estimate proves to be incorrect. In general, if a product liability
claim regarding any of our products is brought against us, even if the alleged
damage is due to the actions or inactions of a third party, such as within our
supply chain, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would
divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and harm our
business. Further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or
future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely
impact our financial results.

Risks Related to Our Global Operating Business

Adverse economic conditions may harm our business.

Economic and industry uncertainty or changes, including recession or slowing
growth, inflation, changes or uncertainty in fiscal, monetary, or trade
policy, disruptions to capital markets, currency fluctuations, higher interest
rates, tighter credit, lower capital expenditures by businesses, including on
IT infrastructure, increases in unemployment, labor shortages, and lower
consumer confidence and spending, have in the past and/or could in the future
have adverse, wide-ranging effects on our business and financial results,
including:

•increased costs for wafers, components, logistics, and other supply chain
expenses, which have negatively impacted our gross margin and may continue to
do so;

•increased supply, employee, facilities and infrastructure costs and
volatility in the financial markets, which have reduced and may in the future
reduce our margins;

•decrease in demand for our products, services and technologies and those of
our customers, partners or licensees;

•the inability of our suppliers to deliver on their supply commitments to us
and our customers' or our licensees' inability to supply products to customers
and/or end users;

•limits on our ability to forecast operating results and make business
decisions;

•the insolvency of key suppliers, distributors, customers or licensing
parties; reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back
operations, exit businesses, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially
cease operations; lead to mergers, consolidations or strategic alliances among
other companies, which could adversely affect our ability to compete
effectively; and

•increased credit and collectability risks, higher borrowing costs or reduced
availability of capital markets, reduced liquidity, adverse impacts on our
suppliers, failures of counterparties including financial institutions and
insurers, asset impairments, and declines in the value of our financial
instruments.

International operations are a significant part of our business, which exposes
us to us to risks that could harm our business.

We conduct our business and have offices worldwide. Our semiconductor wafers
are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located
outside of the United States, and we generated 69% of our revenue during
fiscal year 2023 from sales outside of the United States. The global nature of
our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, which have
had in the past and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations, including domestic
and international economic and political conditions between countries in which
we and our suppliers and manufacturers do business, government lockdowns to
control case spread of COVID-19 or other global or local health issues,
differing legal standards with respect to protection of IP and employment
practices, domestic and international business and cultural practices that
differ, disruptions to capital markets, counter-inflation policies, and/or
currency fluctuations, and natural disasters, acts of war or other military
actions, terrorism, public health issues, and other catastrophic events.

22

* * *

Table of Contents

Product, system security, and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-
attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and
increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage
our reputation.

Security breaches, computer malware, social-engineering attacks, denial-of-
service attacks, software bugs, server malfunctions, software or hardware
failures, loss of data or other information technology assets, and other
cyber-attacks are increasingly sophisticated, making it more difficult to
successfully detect, defend against them or implement adequate preventative
measures.

Cyber-attacks, including ransomware attacks by organized criminal threat
actors, nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors, may become more
prevalent and severe. Our ability to recover from ransomware attacks may be
limited if our backups have been affected by the attack, or if restoring from
backups is delayed or not feasible.

Threat actors, sophisticated nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors
now engage and are expected to continue to engage in cyber-attacks. Due to
increasing geopolitical conflicts and during times of war or other major
conflicts, we and the third parties upon which we rely may be vulnerable to a
heightened risk of cyber-attacks that could materially disrupt our ability to
provide services and products. Furthermore, we rely on products and services
provided by third-party suppliers to operate certain critical business
systems, including without limitation, cloud-based infrastructure, encryption
and authentication technology, employee email, and other functions, which
exposes us to supply-chain attacks or other business disruptions. We cannot
guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain or our
partners' supply chains have not been compromised or that they do not contain
exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to
our information technology systems, including our products and services, or
the third-party information technology systems that support our services. Our
ability to monitor these third parties' information security practices is
limited, and these may not have adequate information security measures in
place. In addition, if one of our third-party suppliers suffers a security
breach, our response may be limited or more difficult because we may not have
direct access to their systems, logs and other information related to the
security breach. Additionally, we are incorporated into the supply chain of a
large number of entities worldwide and, as a result, if our products or
services are compromised, a significant number of our customers and their data
could be affected, which could result in potential liability and harm our
business.

To defend against cyber-attacks, we must continuously engineer more secure
products and enhance security and reliability features, which is expected to
result in increased expenses. We must also continue to develop our security
measures, ensure our suppliers have appropriate security measures in place,
and continue to meet the evolving security requirements of our customers,
applicable industry standards, and government regulations. While we take steps
to detect and remediate certain vulnerabilities that we have identified, we
may not always be able to detect all vulnerabilities in our security controls,
systems or software, including third-party software we have installed, as such
threats and techniques change frequently and may not be detected until after a
security incident has occurred. Further, we may experience delays in
developing and deploying remedial measures designed to address identified
vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities could result in reputational and
financial harm.

We hold confidential and proprietary information, including information from
partners and customers. Breaches of our security measures, along with reported
or perceived vulnerabilities or unapproved dissemination of proprietary
information or sensitive or confidential data about us or third parties could
expose us and the parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this
information, potentially resulting in litigation and subsequent liability,
regulatory inquiries or actions, damage to our brand and reputation or other
harm, including financial, to our business. For example, we hold propriety
game source code from third-party partners in our GFN service. Breaches of our
GFN security measures, which have happened in the past, could expose our
partners to a risk of loss or misuse of this source code, damage both us and
our partners, and expose NVIDIA to potential litigation and liability. If we
or a third party we rely on experience a security incident, which has occurred
in the past, or are perceived to have experienced a security incident, we may
experience adverse consequences, including government enforcement actions,
additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, restrictions on processing
data, litigation, indemnification obligations, reputational harm, diversion of
funds, financial loss, loss of data, material disruptions in our systems and
operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell and distribute our
goods and services, and other similar harms. Inability to fulfill orders,
delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these
disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and
reputation.

23

* * *

Table of Contents

Business disruptions could harm our operations, lead to a decline in revenue
and increase our costs.

Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by natural disasters and extreme
weather conditions, power or water shortages, telecommunications failures,
cloud service provider outages, terrorist attacks, or acts of violence,
political and/or civil unrest, acts of war or other military actions,
epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters and
catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters, a large portion of our
current data center capacity, and a portion of our research and development
activities are located in California, and other critical business operations,
finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Asia,
making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters such as earthquakes,
wildfires, or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical
areas. Catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who
provide us critical infrastructure services for IT and research and
development systems and personnel. Geopolitical and domestic political
developments and other events beyond our control, can increase economic
volatility globally. Political instability, changes in government or adverse
political developments in or around any of the major countries in which we do
business would also likely harm our business, financial condition and results
of operations. Worldwide geopolitical tensions and conflicts, including but
not limited to China, Hong Kong, Israel, Korea and Taiwan where the
manufacture of our product components and final assembly of our products are
concentrated may result in changing regulatory requirements, and other
disruptions that could impact our operations and operating strategies, product
demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. For example,
other countries have restricted and may continue in the future to restrict
business with the State of Israel, where we have engineering, sales support
operations and manufacturing, and companies with Israeli operations, including
by economic boycotts. Our operations could be harmed and our costs could
increase if manufacturing, logistics or other operations are disrupted for any
reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages,
information technology system failures, military actions or economic,
business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues. The
ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers of being
located and consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. In the
event a disaster, war or catastrophic event affects us, the third-party
systems on which we rely, or our customers, our business could be harmed as a
result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, and substantial
expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations. All of these risks and
conditions could materially adversely affect our future sales and operating
results.

Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business.

Climate change may have an increasingly adverse impact on our business and
those of our customers, partners and vendors. Water and energy availability
and reliability in the communities where we conduct business is critical, and
certain of our facilities may be vulnerable to the impacts of extreme weather
events. Extreme heat and wind coupled with dry conditions in Northern
California may lead to power safety shut offs due to wildfire risk, which can
have adverse implications for our Santa Clara, California headquarter offices
and data centers, including impairing the ability of our employees to work
effectively. Climate change, its impact on our supply chain and critical
infrastructure worldwide, and its potential to increase political instability
in regions where we, our customers, partners and our vendors do business, may
disrupt our business and cause us to experience higher attrition, losses and
costs to maintain or resume operations. Although we maintain insurance
coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks, the types and
amounts of insurance we obtain vary depending on availability and cost. Some
of our policies have large deductibles and broad exclusions, and our insurance
providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. Losses not covered by
insurance may be large, which could harm our results of operations and
financial condition.

Our business and those of our suppliers and customers, may also be subject to
climate-related laws, regulations and lawsuits. Regulations such as carbon
taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits could result in greater
direct costs, including costs associated with changes to manufacturing
processes or the procurement of raw materials used in manufacturing processes,
increased capital expenditures to improve facilities and equipment, and higher
compliance and energy costs to reduce emissions, as well as greater indirect
costs resulting from our customers, suppliers or both incurring additional
compliance costs that are passed on to us. These costs and restrictions could
harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or
requiring us to alter our operations and product design activities.
Stakeholder groups may find us insufficiently responsive to the implications
of climate change, and therefore we may face legal action or reputational
harm. We may not achieve our stated goal to source 100% of our global
electricity use from renewable energy by the end of fiscal year 2025, which
could harm our reputation, or we may incur additional,

24

* * *

Table of Contents

unexpected costs to achieve such a goal. We may also experience contractual
disputes due to supply chain delays arising from climate change-related
disruptions, which could result in increased litigation and costs.

We also face risks related to business trends that may be influenced by
climate change concerns. We may face decreased demand for computationally
powerful but energy intensive products, such as our GPUs, despite their energy
efficient design and operation, and/or increased consumer or customer
expectations around the energy efficiency of our products, could negatively
impact our business.

We may not be able to realize the potential benefits of business investments
or acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition
targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new
products or sell our products.

We have acquired and invested and may continue to do so in businesses that
offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or
enhance our existing strategic objectives. Acquisitions or investments involve
significant challenges and risks and could impair our ability to grow our
business, develop new products or sell our products and ultimately could have
a negative impact on our financial results. If we pursue a particular
transaction, we may limit our ability to enter into other transactions that
could help us achieve our other strategic objectives. If we are unable to
timely complete acquisitions, including due to delays and challenges in
obtaining regulatory approvals, we may be unable to pursue other transactions,
we may not be able to retain critical talent from the target company,
technology may evolve and make the acquisition less attractive, and other
changes can take place which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the
transaction and negatively impact our business. For example, in February 2022,
NVIDIA and SoftBank announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement
whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm from SoftBank due to significant
regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We
recorded in operating expenses a $1.35 billion charge in fiscal year 2023
reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing. Regulators
could also impose conditions that reduce the ultimate value of our
acquisitions. In addition, to the extent that our perceived ability to
consummate acquisitions has been harmed, future acquisitions may be more
difficult, complex or expensive. Further, if we hold investments in publicly
traded companies, they could create volatility in our results and may generate
losses up to the value of the investment.

Additional risks related to acquisitions or strategic investments include, but
are not limited to:

•difficulty in integrating the technology, systems, products, policies,
processes, or operations and integrating and retaining the employees,
including key personnel, of the acquired business;

•diversion of capital and other resources, including management's attention;

•assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment
charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets;

•integrating accounting, forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting
cycles;

•coordinating and integrating operations, particularly in countries in which
we do not currently operate;

•difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return and uncertainties to realize
the benefits of an acquisition or strategic investment, if at all;

•difficulty or inability in obtaining governmental, regulatory approval or
restrictions or other consents and approvals or financing;

•stock price impact, fines, fees or reputation harm if we are unable to obtain
regulatory approval for an acquisition or are otherwise unable to close an
acquisition;

•legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or investment;

•potential issuances of debt to finance our acquisitions, resulting in
increased debt, increased interest expense, and compliance with debt covenants
or other restrictions;

•the potential for our acquisitions to result in dilutive issuances of our
equity securities;

•the potential variability of the amount and form of any performance-based
consideration;

25

* * *

Table of Contents

•negative changes in general economic conditions in the regions or the
industries in which we or our target operate;

•exposure to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities;

•potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant
issues with the assets or company in which we are investing or are acquiring;
and

•impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target's employees,
vendors and customers.

For example, when integrating acquisition target systems into our own, we have
experienced and may continue to experience challenges including lengthy and
costly systems integration, delays in purchasing and shipping products,
difficulties with system integration via electronic data interchange and other
processes with our key suppliers and customers, and training and change
management needs of integration personnel. These challenges have impacted our
results of operations and may continue to do so in the future.

We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of
customers and our revenue could be adversely affected if we lose or are
prevented from selling to any of these customers.

We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of
customers within our distribution and partner network. With several of these
distributors and partners, we are selling multiple target market platforms
through their channels. Our operating results depend on sales within our
partner network, as well as the ability of these partners to sell products
that incorporate our processors. In the future, these partners may decide to
purchase fewer products, not to incorporate our products into their ecosystem,
or to alter their purchasing patterns in some other way. Because most of our
sales are made on a purchase order basis, our customers can cancel, change or
delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without
penalty. Our partners or customers may develop their own solutions; our
customers may purchase products from our competitors; and our partners may
discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase
our products, all of which may alter partners' or customers' purchasing
patterns. The loss of any of our large customers, a significant reduction in
purchases by them, our inability to sell to a customer due to U.S. or other
countries' trade restrictions, or any difficulties in collecting accounts
receivable would likely harm our financial condition and results of
operations.

If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key
employees, our business may be harmed.

To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must
attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees and recruit and
develop diverse talent. Labor is subject to external factors that are beyond
our control, including our industry's highly competitive market for skilled
workers and leaders, cost inflation, the COVID-19 pandemic and workforce
participation rates. Changes in immigration and work permit regulations or in
their administration or interpretation could impair our ability to attract and
retain qualified employees. Competition for personnel results in increased
costs in the form of cash and stock-based compensation, and in times of stock
price volatility, as we have experienced in the past and may experience in the
future, the retentive value of our stock-based compensation may decrease.
Additionally, we are highly dependent on the services of our longstanding
executive team. Failure to ensure effective succession planning, transfer of
knowledge and smooth transitions involving executives and key employees could
hinder our strategic planning and execution and long-term success.

Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our business
processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such
systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.

We rely upon internal processes and information systems to support key
business functions, including our assessment of internal controls over
financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The
efficient operation and scalability of these processes and systems is critical
to support our growth. In fiscal year 2023, we continued the implementation of
accounting and consolidation functionality related to a new enterprise
resource planning, or ERP, system. Any ERP system problems upon
implementation, such as quality issues or programming errors, could impact our
continued ability to successfully operate our business or to timely and
accurately report our financial results. These changes may be costly and
disruptive to our operations and could impose substantial demands on
management time. Failure to implement new or updated controls, or difficulties
encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause
us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.

26

* * *

Table of Contents

Identification of material weaknesses in our internal controls, even if
quickly remediated once disclosed, may cause investors to lose confidence in
our financial statements and our stock price may decline. Remediation of any
material weakness could require us to incur significant expenses, and if we
fail to remediate any material weakness, our financial statements may be
inaccurate, we may be required to restate our financial statements, our
ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be
adversely affected, our access to the capital markets may be restricted, our
stock price may decline, and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation
by regulatory authorities.

The COVID-19 pandemic has affected and could continue to have a material
adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted and may continue to impact our workforce
and operations and those of our customers, partners, vendors and suppliers.
COVID-19-related disruptions have created and may continue to create supply
chain and logistics constraints, and COVID-19 containment around the world has
put restrictions on, among other areas, manufacturing facilities, commerce,
and support operations. Restrictions may be imposed or reinstated as the
pandemic resurfaces, such as lockdown measures due to COVID-19 containment
efforts in China. End customer sales for our products in China have been
negatively impacted by lockdowns and this impact may continue if lockdowns
return. COVID-19 has also resulted in, and may continue to result in,
disruption of and volatility in global financial markets, which could impact
overall technology spending or negatively affect our stock price and
liquidity. All of these factors have had or could in the future have a
material negative impact on our business.

We modified our business and workforce practices in response to COVID-19,
including with respect to flexible work and social distancing measures, and we
may take further actions as required by government regulations or in the best
interests of our employees, customers, partners and suppliers. These and other
measures have caused and may in the future cause us to incur incremental
expenses and costs.

The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and
financial performance and our ability to timely execute our business
strategies may continue to be difficult to measure and predict. The impact of
COVID-19 can also exacerbate other risks discussed in these risk factors.

Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future
fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of
securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline.

Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may continue to
fluctuate due to numerous factors described in these risk factors. Therefore,
investors should not rely on past comparisons of our results of operations as
an indication of our future performance. Additional factors that could affect
our results of operations include, but are not limited to:

•our ability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-
year development cycle for some of our products and services;

•our ability to comply with our customers' contractual obligations;

•our extended payment term arrangements with certain customers, the inability
of some customers to make required payments, our ability to obtain credit
insurance for these customers and their extended payment terms, and customer
bad debt write-offs;

•our vendors' payment requirements;

•unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; and

•changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing
standards.

Any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving
our anticipated future financial results. For example, we have granted and may
continue to grant extended payment terms to some customers, particularly
during macroeconomic downturns, which could impact our ability to collect
payment. Our vendors have requested and may continue to ask for shorter
payment terms, which may impact our cash flow generation. These arrangements
reduce the cash we have available for general business operations. Failure to
meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security
analysts is likely to cause our stock price to decline, as it has in the past,
or experience substantial price volatility.

27

* * *

Table of Contents

Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters

Our operations could be affected by the complex laws, rules and regulations to
which our business is subject, and political and other actions may adversely
impact our business.

We are subject to laws and regulations domestically and worldwide, affecting
our operations in areas including, but not limited to, IP ownership and
infringement; taxes; import and export requirements and tariffs; anti-
corruption, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; business
acquisitions; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions;
data privacy requirements; competition and antitrust; advertising; employment;
product regulations; cybersecurity; environmental, health, and safety
requirements; the responsible use of AI; climate change; cryptocurrency; and
consumer laws. Compliance with such requirements can be onerous and expensive,
could impact our competitive position, and may negatively impact our business
operations and ability to manufacture and ship our products. There can be no
assurance that our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers or agents will
not violate applicable laws or the policies, controls, and procedures that we
have designed to help ensure compliance with such laws, and violations could
result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our
employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our
reputation. Changes to the laws, rules and regulations to which we are
subject, or changes to their interpretation and enforcement could lead to
materially greater compliance and other costs and/or further restrictions on
our ability to manufacture and supply our products and operate our business.
For example, we may face increased compliance costs as a result of changes or
increases in anti-competition legislation, regulation, administrative rule
making, increased focus from regulators on cybersecurity vulnerabilities and
risks, and enforcement activity resulting from growing public concern over
concentration of economic power in corporations. Revisions to laws or
regulations or their interpretation and enforcement could also result in
increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of or increase to import
duties or tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other
retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans
or impact the timing of our shipments. Additionally, changes in the public
perception of governments in the regions where we operate or plan to operate
could negatively impact our business and results of operations.

Government actions, including trade protection and national security policies
of U.S. and foreign government bodies, such as tariffs, import or export
regulations, including deemed export restrictions, trade and economic
sanctions, decrees, quotas or other trade barriers and restrictions could
affect our ability to ship products, provide services to our customers and
employees, do business without an export license with entities on the U.S.
Department of Commerce's U.S. Entity List or other U.S. government restricted
parties lists (which is expected to change from time to time), and generally
fulfill our contractual obligations and have a material adverse effect on our
business. If we were ever found to have violated export control laws or
sanctions of the U.S. or similar applicable non-U.S. laws, even if the
violation occurred without our knowledge, we may be subject to various
penalties available under the laws, any of which could have a material and
adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.

For example, in response to the war in Ukraine, the United States and other
jurisdictions imposed economic sanctions and export control measures which
blocked the passage of our products, services and support into Russia,
Belarus, and certain regions of Ukraine. In fiscal year 2023, we stopped
direct sales to Russia and closed business operations in Russia. Concurrently,
the war in Ukraine has impacted end customer sales in EMEA and may continue to
do so in the future.

The increasing focus on the strategic importance of AI technologies has
already resulted in regulatory restrictions that target products and services
capable of enabling or facilitating AI, and may in the future result in
additional restrictions impacting some or all of our product and service
offerings. Such restrictions could include additional unilateral or
multilateral export controls on certain products or technology, including but
not limited to AI technologies. As geopolitical tensions have increased,
semiconductors associated with AI, including GPUs and associated products, are
increasingly the focus of export control restrictions proposed by stakeholders
in the U.S. and its allies, and it is likely that additional unilateral or
multilateral controls will be adopted. Such controls may be very broad in
scope and application, prohibit us from exporting our products to any or all
customers in one or more markets, including but not limited to China, and
could negatively impact our manufacturing, testing, and warehousing locations
and options, or could impose other conditions that limit our ability to serve
demand abroad and could negatively and materially impact our business,
revenue, and financial results. Export controls targeting GPUs and
semiconductors associated with AI, which are increasingly likely, would
restrict our ability to export our technology, products, or services even
though competitors may not be subject to similar restrictions, creating a
competitive disadvantage for us and

28

* * *

Table of Contents

negatively impacting our business and financial results. Increasing use of
economic sanctions may also impact demand for our products or services,
negatively impacting our business and financial results. Additional unilateral
or multilateral controls are also likely to include deemed export control
limitations that negatively impact the ability of our research and development
teams to execute our roadmap or other objectives in a timely manner.
Additional export restrictions may not only impact our ability to serve
overseas markets, but also provoke responses from foreign governments,
including China, that negatively impact our supply chain or our ability to
provide our products and services to customers in all markets worldwide, which
could also substantially reduce our revenue.

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government, or USG,
announced new export restrictions and export licensing requirements targeting
China's semiconductor and supercomputing industries. These restrictions impact
exports of certain chips, as well as software, hardware, equipment, and
technology used to develop, produce, and manufacture certain chips, to China
(including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia, and specifically impact our A100
and H100 integrated circuits, DGX or any other systems or boards which
incorporate A100 or H100 integrated circuits and our A100X. The new license
requirements also apply to any future NVIDIA integrated circuit achieving
certain peak performance and chip-to-chip I/O performance thresholds, as well
as any system or board that includes those circuits. There are also now
licensing requirements to export a wide array of products, including
networking products, destined for certain end users and for certain end uses
in China.

We are required to transition certain operations out of China (including Hong
Kong), which could be costly and time consuming, and adversely affect our
research and development and supply and distribution operations, as well as
our revenue, during any such transition period.

We have engaged with customers in China to provide alternative products not
subject to the new license requirements, such as our new A800 offering. To the
extent that a customer requires products covered by the new license
requirements, we may seek a license for the customer but have no assurance
that the USG will grant any exemptions or licenses for any customer, or that
the USG will act on them in a timely manner. The new requirements may have a
disproportionate impact on NVIDIA and may disadvantage NVIDIA against certain
of our competitors who sell products that are not subject to the new
restrictions or may be able to acquire licenses for their products.

Management of these new license and other requirements is complicated and time
consuming. Our results and competitive position may be harmed if customers in
China do not want to purchase our alternative product offerings, if customers
purchase product from competitors, if customers develop their own internal
solution, if we are unable to provide contractual warranty or other extended
service obligations, if the USG does not grant licenses in a timely manner or
denies licenses to significant customers, or if we incur significant
transition costs. Additionally, if we are unable to sell our alternative
product offerings in China, we may have excess inventory, harming our results.
Even if the USG grants any requested licenses, the licenses may be temporary
or impose burdensome conditions that we cannot or choose not to fulfill. The
new requirements may benefit certain of our competitors, as the licensing
process will make our pre-sale and post-sale technical support efforts more
cumbersome and less certain, and encourage customers in China to pursue
alternatives to our products, including semiconductor suppliers based in
China, Europe, and Israel.

Additionally, restrictions imposed by the Chinese government on the duration
of gaming activities and access to games may adversely affect our Gaming
revenue, and increased oversight of digital platform companies may adversely
affect our Data Center revenue.

Increased scrutiny from shareholders, regulators and others regarding our
environmental, social and governance responsibilities could result in
additional costs or risks and adversely impact our reputation and willingness
of customers and suppliers to do business with us.

Shareholder advocacy groups, certain investment funds, other market
participants, shareholders and customers have placed increased importance on
the implications of the social and environmental cost of their investments and
these parties, as well as government regulators, have focused increasingly on
corporate ESG and sustainability practices and disclosures, including those
associated with climate change and human rights. Stakeholders may not be
satisfied with our ESG practices or the speed of their adoption. Additionally,
our ESG practices, oversight of ESG practices, or disclosure controls may not
meet evolving shareholder, regulator, or other industry stakeholder
expectations, or we may fail to meet sustainability disclosure or ESG
reporting standards. We could also incur additional costs and require
additional resources to monitor, report, and comply with various ESG
practices, choose not to conduct business with potential

29

* * *

Table of Contents

customers, or discontinue or not expand business with existing customers due
to our policies. These factors may negatively harm our brand, reputation and
business activities or expose us to liability.

Issues relating to the responsible use of our technologies, including AI in
our offerings, may result in reputational and financial harm and liability.

Concerns relating to the responsible use of new and evolving technologies,
such as AI, in our products and services may result in reputational and
financial harm and liability, and may cause us to incur costs to resolve such
issues. We are increasingly building AI capabilities into many of our products
and services. AI poses emerging ethical issues and presents risks and
challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. If we
enable or offer solutions that draw controversy due to their perceived or
actual impact on society, such as AI solutions that have unintended
consequences or are controversial because of their impact on human rights,
privacy, employment, or other social, economic, or political issues, or if we
are unable to develop effective internal policies and frameworks relating to
the responsible development and use of AI models and systems offered through
our sales channels, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive
harm or legal liability. Compliance with government regulation in the area of
AI ethics may also increase the cost of related research and development, and
changes in AI-related regulation could disproportionately impact and
disadvantage us and require us to change our business practices, which may
negatively impact our financial results. Our failure to address concerns
relating to the responsible use of AI by us or others could undermine public
confidence in AI and slow adoption of AI in our products and services or cause
reputational harm.

Actions to adequately protect our IP rights could result in substantial costs
to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful or if
we are prohibited from making or selling our products.

From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings
alleging patent infringement or other IP rights violations by us, our
employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify. An unfavorable ruling
could include significant damages, invalidation of one or more patents,
indemnification of third parties, payment of lost profits, or injunctive
relief. Claims that our products or processes infringe the IP rights of
others, regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs
to respond to, defend, and resolve such claims, and they may also divert the
efforts and attention of management and technical personnel.

We may commence legal proceedings to protect our IP rights, which may increase
our operating expenses. We could be subject to countersuits as a result. If
infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe
a third party's IP, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to
the third party's IP rights. If we or one of our indemnitees is unable to
obtain such a license, on acceptable terms or at all, we could be subject to
substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and
sale of one or more of our products. We may also have to make royalty or other
payments, or cross license our technology. If these arrangements are not
concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively
impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee
may increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating
results.

We rely on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party
nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the
countries in which we operate to protect our IP. Foreign laws may not protect
our products or IP rights to the same extent as United States law. This makes
the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. The
theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other
confidential information could harm our competitive position and reduce
acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in
research and development, product development, and marketing could be reduced.
We also may face risks to our IP if our employees are hired by competitors. We
continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing
and new innovations and technologies but cannot be certain whether our
applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether
they will be enforceable.

We are subject to stringent and changing data privacy and security laws,
rules, regulations, and other obligations. Privacy or security concerns
relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter
current and potential customers, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings
and liability.

We may process sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is
subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, industry standards,
external and internal policies, contracts and other obligations that govern
the processing of such data by us and on our behalf. Concerns about our
practices or the ultimate use

30

* * *

Table of Contents

of our products and services with regard to the collection, use, retention,
security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related
matters, including for use in AI, even if unfounded, could damage our
reputation and adversely affect our operating results. The theft, loss, or
misuse of personal data in our possession or by one of our partners could
result in damage to our reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our
business activities or increased security costs and costs related to defending
legal claims.

In the United States, federal, state and local authorities have enacted
numerous data privacy and security laws, including for data breach
notification, personal data privacy, and consumer protection. The California
Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, or CCPA, gives California residents the right to
access, delete and opt-out of certain sharing of their personal information,
and to receive detailed information about how it is used and shared. The CCPA
allows for statutory fines of up to $7,500 per violation and the law created a
private right of action for certain data breaches. The California Privacy
Rights Act of 2020, or CPRA, became operative in 2023, and restricts the use
of certain categories of sensitive personal information; further restricts the
use of cross-contextual advertising techniques; restricts the retention of
personal information; expands the types of data breaches subject to the
private right of action; and establishes the California Privacy Protection
Agency which can impose administrative fines for noncompliance. Virginia,
Colorado, Utah and Connecticut have each passed their own privacy legislation
which differ from the CPRA and each become effective in 2023. Similar laws are
being considered in several other states, as well as at the federal and local
levels. Additionally, several states and localities have enacted measures
related to the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning in products
and services. If we become subject to additional data privacy laws, the risk
of enforcement action against us could increase.

Worldwide regulatory authorities are also considering and have approved
various legislative proposals concerning data protection. The European Union
adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, and the United
Kingdom similarly adopted the U.K. GDPR, governing the strict handling of
personal data of persons within the European Economic Area, or EEA, and the
United Kingdom, respectively, including its use and protection and the ability
of persons whose data is stored to access, correct, and delete such data about
themselves. If we are found not to comply, we could be subject to penalties of
up to €20 million or 4% of worldwide revenue, whichever is greater, and
classes of individuals or consumer protection organizations may initiate
litigation related to our processing of their personal data. Furthermore,
there exists a proposed European regulation related to AI that, if adopted,
could impose onerous obligations that may disproportionately impact and
disadvantage us and require us to change our business practices.

In the ordinary course of business, we may transfer personal data from Europe,
China, and other jurisdictions to the United States or other countries.
Certain jurisdictions have enacted data localization laws and cross-border
personal data transfer laws. For example, the GDPR generally restricts the
transfer of personal data to countries outside of the EEA. The European
Commission released a set of "Standard Contractual Clauses" designed for
entities to validly transfer personal data out of the EEA to jurisdictions
that the European Commission has not found to provide an adequate level of
protection, including the United States. While the European Union and United
States governments have recently announced an agreement in principle on a new
bilateral cross-border transfer mechanism, it is uncertain whether this
agreement will be overturned in court like the previous two European Union-
United States bilateral cross-border transfer agreements. These mechanisms are
subject to legal challenges, and there is no assurance that we can satisfy or
rely on these measures to lawfully transfer personal data to the United
States. Other jurisdictions have enacted or are considering similar cross-
border personal data transfer laws and local personal data residency laws, any
of which would increase the cost and complexity of doing business and could
result in fines from regulators. For example, China law imposes various
requirements relating to data processing and data localization. Data broadly
defined as important under China law, including personal data, may not be
transferable outside of China without prior assessment and approval by the
Cyberspace Administration of China, or CAC. Compliance with these
requirements, including CAC assessments and any deemed failures of such
assessments, could cause us to incur liability, prevent us from using data
collected in China, or impact our ability to transfer data outside of China.
The inability to import personal data to the United States could significantly
and negatively impact our business operations, limit our ability to
collaborate with parties that are subject to European, China, and other data
privacy and security laws, or require us to increase our personal data
processing capabilities in Europe and/or elsewhere at significant expense.
Some European regulators have prevented companies from transferring personal
data out of Europe for allegedly violating the GDPR's cross-border data
transfer limitations, which could negatively impact our business.

We may also be bound by contractual obligations related to data privacy and
security, and our efforts to comply with such obligations may not be
successful or may be claimed to be non-compliant. For example,

31

* * *

Table of Contents

certain privacy laws, such as the GDPR and the CCPA, require our customers to
impose specific contractual restrictions on their service providers. We
sometimes host personal data in collaboration with our customers, and if a
breach exposed or altered that personal data, it could harm those customer
relationships and subject us to litigation, regulatory action, or fines. We
may publish privacy policies, marketing materials and other statements, such
as compliance with certain certifications or self-regulatory principles,
regarding data privacy and security. If these policies, materials or
statements are found to be deficient, lacking in transparency, deceptive,
unfair, or misrepresentative of our practices, we may be subject to
investigation, enforcement actions by regulators or other adverse
consequences.

Data protection laws around the world are quickly changing and may be
interpreted and applied in an increasingly stringent fashion and in a manner
that is inconsistent with our data practices. These obligations may
necessitate changes to our information technologies, systems, and practices
and to those of any third parties that process personal data on our behalf.
Despite our efforts, we or third parties upon whom we rely may fail to comply
with such obligations. If we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to address
or comply with data privacy and security obligations, we could face
significant consequences, including but not limited to, government enforcement
actions, litigation, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, bans
on processing personal data and orders to destroy or not use personal data.
Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation,
business, or financial condition.

We have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our operating results may
be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates and other tax-related
factors.

We are subject to complex income tax laws and regulations, as well as non-
income-based taxes, in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required
in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax
liabilities. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities in different
jurisdictions. For example, we are currently under examination by the Internal
Revenue Service for our fiscal years 2018 and 2019 and undergoing tax audits
in Germany, Israel and India. Although we believe our tax estimates are
reasonable, any adverse outcome could increase our worldwide effective tax
rate, increase the amount of non-income taxes imposed on our business, and
harm our financial position, results of operations, net income, and cash
flows.

Further, changes in tax laws may materially impact our results of operations,
or the way we conduct our business. These include changes to U.S. tax laws and
regulations, such as the Inflation Reduction Act, which implements a 15%
minimum tax on book income and a 1% excise tax on net stock repurchases and
parts of which became effective for us in fiscal year 2023. It is possible
that these changes, or other tax law changes, could increase our future tax
liability or cause other adverse impacts. Most of our income is taxable in the
United States, with a significant portion qualifying for preferential
treatment as foreign-derived intangible income, or FDII. If U.S. tax rates
increase or the FDII deduction is reduced, our provision for income taxes,
results of operations, net income and cash flows would be adversely affected.
In addition, changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a
result of the base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD. The OECD
recommended changes to long-standing tax principles and continues to develop
new proposals, including allocating greater taxing rights to countries where
customers are located and establishing a minimum tax on global income. These
changes, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely
affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and financial
condition.

Our future effective tax rate may also be affected by a variety of factors,
including changes in our business or statutory rates, the mix of earnings in
countries with differing statutory tax rates, available tax incentives,
credits and deductions, the expiration of statute of limitations and
settlements of tax audits, changes in accounting principles, adjustments to
income taxes upon finalization of tax returns, increases in expenses not
deductible for tax purposes, the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
liabilities and deferred tax valuation allowances, changing interpretation of
existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for business
combinations, as well as changes in the domestic or international organization
of our business and structure. Furthermore, the tax effects of accounting for
stock-based compensation and volatility in our stock price may significantly
impact our effective tax rate in the period in which they occur. A decline in
our stock price may result in reduced future tax benefits from stock-based
compensation, increase our effective tax rate, and adversely affect our
financial results.

Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation,
investigations and regulatory proceedings.

We currently and will likely continue to face legal, administrative and
regulatory proceedings, claims, demands and/or investigations involving
shareholder, consumer, competition and/or other issues relating to

32

* * *

Table of Contents

our business. For example, we are defending on appeal the dismissal of a
securities class action lawsuit from multiple shareholders asserting claims
that we and certain of our officers made false and/or misleading statements
related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on GPU
demand in 2017 and 2018. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently
uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages or
fines, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain
products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies,
such as compulsory licensing of patents. An unfavorable outcome or settlement
may result in a material adverse impact. Regardless of the outcome, litigation
can be costly, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations.

Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows
from operations, and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling
our contractual obligations.

As of January 29, 2023, we had outstanding a total of $11 billion in notes due
by 2060. As each series of senior notes matures, unless redeemed or
repurchased, we must repay or refinance the notes. If we decide to refinance,
we may receive less favorable terms, or we may be unable to refinance at all,
which may adversely affect our financial condition. We also have a $575
million commercial paper program.

Maintenance of our current and future indebtedness and contractual
restrictions could cause us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash
flows from operations towards debt service obligations and principal
repayments; increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic,
industry and competitive conditions; limit our flexibility regarding changes
in our business and our industry; impair our ability to obtain future
financing; and restrict our ability to grant liens on property, enter into
certain mergers, dispose of our assets, or materially change our business.

Our ability to comply with the covenants in our indenture may be affected by
events beyond our control. If we breach any of the covenants without a waiver
from the note holders or lenders, then any outstanding indebtedness may be
declared immediately due and payable. Changes to our credit rating may
negatively impact the value and liquidity of our securities, restrict our
ability to obtain future financing and affect the terms of any such financing.

Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and agreement with
Microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control.

The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may
discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control. Provisions in our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a
third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding stock. These provisions
include the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue preferred
stock, change the number of directors, and to make, amend or repeal our bylaws
without prior shareholder approval; the inability of our shareholders to act
by written consent or call special meetings; advance notice requirements for
director nominations and shareholder proposals; and a super-majority voting
requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and
bylaws. Under our agreement with Microsoft for the Xbox, if someone makes an
offer to purchase at least 30% of our outstanding common stock, Microsoft may
have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. These provisions
could delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA, discourage proxy
contests, and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of
their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

Not applicable.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Our headquarters is in Santa Clara, California. We own and lease approximately
3 million square feet of office and building space for our corporate
headquarters. In addition, we lease data center space in Santa Clara,
California. We also own and lease facilities for data centers, research and
development, and/or sales and administrative purposes throughout the U.S. and
in various international locations, primarily in China, India, Israel, and
Taiwan. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good
condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. We do not identify or
allocate assets by operating segment. For additional information regarding
obligations under leases, refer to Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

33

* * *

Table of Contents

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Please see Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of our
legal proceedings.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol
NVDA. Public trading of our common stock began on January 22, 1999. Prior to
that, there was no public market for our common stock. As of February 17,
2023, we had approximately 344 registered shareholders, not including those
shares held in street or nominee name.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

On May 23, 2022, our Board of Directors increased and extended our share
repurchase program to repurchase additional common stock up to a total of $15
billion through December 2023. Since the inception of our share repurchase
program, we have repurchased an aggregate of 1.10 billion shares for a total
cost of $17.12 billion through January 29, 2023. During fiscal year 2023, we
repurchased 63 million shares for $10.04 billion. As of January 29, 2023, we
are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our
common stock up to $7.23 billion through December 2023.

The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated
transactions, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan or in structured share
repurchase programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases, in
compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act, subject to market conditions,
applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The program does not
obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the
program may be suspended at any time at our discretion.

In fiscal year 2023, we paid $398 million in quarterly cash dividends. Our
cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that
program are subject to our Board of Directors' continuing determination that
the dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the
best interests of our shareholders.

The following table presents details of our share repurchase transactions
during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Period| | Total Number  
of Shares Purchased  
(In millions)| | Average Price Paid per Share| | Total Number of Shares
Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Program (In millions)| | Approximate
Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (In
billions)  
October 31, 2022 - November 27, 2022| | 7 | | | $| 148.11 | | | 7 | | | $|
7.23 |  
November 28, 2022 - December 25, 2022| | -- | | | $| -- | | | -- | | | $| 7.23
|  
December 26, 2022 - January 29, 2023| | -- | | | $| -- | | | -- | | | $| 7.23
|  
Total| | 7 | | | | | 7 | | |  
  
Restricted Stock Unit Share Withholding

We withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover
tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards
under our employee equity incentive program. During fiscal year 2023, we
withheld approximately 8 million shares for a total value of $1.48 billion

34

* * *

Table of Contents

through net share settlements. Refer to Note 4 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for further discussion regarding our equity incentive plans.

Stock Performance Graphs

The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return for our
common stock, the S&P 500 Index, and the Nasdaq 100 Index for the five years
ended January 29, 2023. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on January
28, 2018 in our common stock and in each of the S&P 500 Index and the Nasdaq
100 Index. Our common stock is a component of each of the presented indices.
Total return assumes reinvestment of dividends in each of the indices
indicated. Total return is based on historical results and is not intended to
indicate future performance.

![nvda-20230129_g2.jpg](nvda-20230129_g2.jpg)

*$100 invested on 1/28/18 in stock and in indices, including reinvestment of dividends. 

Source: FactSet financial data and analytics.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 1/28/2018| | 1/27/2019| | 1/26/2020| | 1/31/2021| | 1/30/2022| | 1/29/2023  
NVIDIA Corporation| $| 100.00 | | | $| 66.00 | | | $| 103.63 | | | $| 215.33 |
| | $| 378.94 | | | $| 338.18 |  
S&P 500| $| 100.00 | | | $| 94.60 | | | $| 119.36 | | | $| 137.01 | | | $|
165.79 | | | $| 154.80 |  
Nasdaq 100| $| 100.00 | | | $| 97.69 | | | $| 133.01 | | | $| 189.72 | | | $|
213.63 | | | $| 181.38 |  
  
  

ITEM 6. [RESERVED]

35

* * *

Table of Contents

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results
of operations should be read in conjunction with "Item 1A. Risk Factors", our
Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other
cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common
stock.

Overview

Our Company and Our Businesses

NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging
computational problems. Since our original focus on PC graphics, we have
expanded to several other large and important computationally intensive
fields. Fueled by the sustained demand for exceptional 3D graphics and the
scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has leveraged its GPU architecture to
create platforms for scientific computing, AI, data science, AV, robotics,
metaverse and 3D internet applications.

Our two operating segments are "Compute & Networking" and "Graphics." Refer to
Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item
15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in
California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.

Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges

Supply, Products Transitions, and New Products and Business Models

Our supply, which includes inventory on hand, purchase obligations and prepaid
supply agreements, has grown significantly due to current supply chain
conditions, complexity of our products, and recent reductions in demand. At
the end of fiscal year 2023, purchase obligations and prepaid supply
agreements represented more than half of our total supply. Inventory
provisions for excess inventory and purchase obligations totaled $2.17 billion
in fiscal year 2023. We may incur inventory provisions if our inventory or
supply commitments are misaligned with demand for our products.

Product transitions are complex as we often ship both new and legacy
architecture products simultaneously and we and our channel partners prepare
to ship and support new products. We are currently transitioning the
architecture of our Data Center, Professional Visualization, and Gaming
products. Qualification time for new products, customers anticipating product
transitions and channel partners reducing channel inventory of legacy
architectures ahead of new product introductions can create reductions or
volatility in our revenue. While we have managed prior product transitions and
have previously sold multiple product architectures at the same time, these
transitions are difficult and prior trends may not continue.

We build technology and products for use cases and applications that may be
new or may not yet exist. Examples include our Omniverse platform and third-
party large language models and generative models. Our demand estimates for
these use cases and applications can be incorrect and create volatility in our
revenue or supply levels, and we may not be able to generate any revenue from
these use cases and applications.

NVIDIA AI Cloud Service Offerings

We will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and
through our network of partners. Examples of these services include NVIDIA DGX
Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI
models, and customizable pretrained AI models. NVIDIA has partnered with
leading cloud service providers to host these services in their data centers.

We entered into multi-year cloud service agreements in the second half of
fiscal year 2023 to these offerings and our research and development
activities. NVIDIA AI cloud services may not be successful and will take time,
resources and investment. We also offer or plan to offer standalone software
solutions for AI including NVIDIA AI Enterprise, NVIDIA Omniverse, NVIDIA
DRIVE for automotive, and several other software solutions. These new business
models or strategies may not be successful and we may fail to sell any
meaningful standalone software or as-a-service solutions. We may incur
significant costs and may not achieve any significant revenue from these
offerings.

36

* * *

Table of Contents

Global Trade

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the USG announced new license
requirements that, with certain exceptions, impact exports to China (including
Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia of our A100 and H100 integrated circuits, DGX
or any other systems or boards which incorporate A100 or H100 integrated
circuits and our A100X. We are required to transition certain operations out
of China (including Hong Kong), including research and development and supply
and distribution operations. We have engaged with customers in China to
provide alternative products not subject to the new license requirements, such
as our new A800 offering.

Management of these new license and other requirements is complicated and time
consuming. Our results and competitive position may be harmed if customers in
China do not want to purchase our alternative product offerings, if customers
purchase product from competitors, or if customers develop their own internal
solution, if the USG does not grant licenses in a timely manner or denies
licenses to significant customers, or if we incur significant transition
costs.

COVID-19

During fiscal year 2023, we reopened our offices worldwide. We incurred
incremental expenses and related in-office costs as we ramped onsite services.

Restrictions may be imposed or reinstated as the pandemic resurfaces, such as
lockdown measures due to COVID-19 containment efforts in China. During fiscal
year 2023, end customer sales for our products in China have been negatively
impacted by lockdowns and this impact may continue if lockdowns return.
COVID-19-related disruptions have created and may continue to create supply
chain and logistics constraints. Challenges in estimating demand could become
more pronounced or volatile in the future on both a global and regional basis.

Russia

In fiscal year 2023, we stopped direct sales to Russia and later in the year,
we closed business operations in Russia. Direct sales to Russia in fiscal year
2022 were immaterial. Our revenue to partners that sell into Russia may have
been negatively impacted due to the war in Ukraine.

Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement

In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank announced the termination of the Share
Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm from SoftBank due to
significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the
transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in
fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at
signing.

Fiscal Year 2023 Summary

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | Change  
| | | | |  
| ($ in millions, except per share data)  
Revenue| $| 26,974 | | | $| 26,914 | | | -- | %  
Gross margin| 56.9 | %| | 64.9 | %| | Down 8.0 pts  
Operating expenses| $| 11,132 | | | $| 7,434 | | | Up 50%  
Income from operations| $| 4,224 | | | $| 10,041 | | | Down 58%  
Net income| $| 4,368 | | | $| 9,752 | | | Down 55%  
Net income per diluted share| $| 1.74 | | | $| 3.85 | | | Down 55%  
  
We specialize in markets where our computing platforms can provide tremendous
acceleration for applications. These platforms incorporate processors,
interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to deliver unique
value. Our platforms address four large markets where our expertise is
critical: Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and Automotive.

Revenue for fiscal year 2023 revenue was $26.97 billion, flat compared with a
year ago.

37

* * *

Table of Contents

Data Center revenue was up 41% from a year ago led by strong growth from
hyperscale customers and also reflects purchases made by several CSP partners
to support multi-year cloud service agreements for our new NVIDIA AI cloud
service offerings and our research and development activities.

Gaming revenue was down 27% from a year ago reflecting lower sell-in to
partners to help reduce channel inventory levels as global macro-economic
conditions and COVID-19 related disruptions in China weighed on gaming demand.

Professional Visualization revenue was down 27% from a year ago reflecting a
lower sell-in to partners to help reduce channel inventory levels.

Automotive revenue was up 60% from a year ago reflecting growth in sales of
self-driving solutions, computing solutions for electric vehicle makers and
strength in sales of AI cockpit solutions. The increase also included growth
in automotive development arrangements.

OEM and Other revenue was down 61% from a year ago driven by notebook OEM and
CMP. CMP revenue was nominal in fiscal year 2023 and $550 million in fiscal
year 2022.

Gross margin for fiscal year 2023 declined from a year ago, driven by $2.17
billion of inventory charges largely relating to excess supply of NVIDIA
Ampere architecture Gaming and Data Center products as compared to the demand
expectations for these products, particularly for the expected demand in
China. The inventory charges were comprised of $1.04 billion for inventory on
hand and $1.13 billion for inventory purchase obligations in excess of our
demand expectations.

Operating expenses, which included a $1.35 billion acquisition termination
charge related to the Arm transaction, were up 50% from a year ago. The
increase also reflected compensation, data center infrastructure, and
engineering development costs.

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $13.30 billion.

During fiscal year 2023, we returned $10.44 billion to shareholders in the
form of share repurchases and cash dividends. As of the end of fiscal year
2023, we had $7.23 billion remaining under our share repurchase authorization
through December 2023.

Market Platform Highlights

Data Center revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $15.01 billion, up 41% from
fiscal year 2022. The strong growth in Data Center revenue was influenced by
hyperscaler and cloud usage of our accelerated computing platforms and
networking portfolio. In Data Center, we announced the NVIDIA Hopper GPU
architecture and began ramping the first products based on the architecture,
including the NVIDIA H100 Tensor Core GPU. The NVIDIA OVX server reference
design launched for digital twins and other Omniverse applications. We
completed two new large language models for cloud AI services -- NVIDIA NeMo
LLM and NVIDIA BioNeMo LLM. Additionally, we announced the NVIDIA Spectrum-4
end-to-end 400Gbps networking platform and began shipping Quantum-2 in
December 2022.

Gaming revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $9.07 billion, down 27% from fiscal
year 2022. Gaming results were influenced by the rapid change in economic
conditions causing excess inventory with our channel partners. We introduced
pricing programs for our channel partners and started undershipping GPU supply
to the partners so that we could lower inventory in the channel. As we exited
fiscal year 2023, we have made meaningful progress in establishing lower
inventory levels with our channel partners. In Gaming, we announced the new
Ada Lovelace GPU architecture, and introduced the first products based on Ada,
including the GeForce RTX 4090, RTX 4080, and RTX 4070 Ti desktop GPUs and
laptop GPUs featured in over 170 laptop designs. We introduced NVIDIA DLSS 3
for over 50 games and applications. We brought GeForce RTX 4080-class
performance to the GeForce NOW Ultimate membership tier.

Professional Visualization revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $1.54 billion,
down 27% from fiscal year 2022. Professional Visualization results were
influenced by the rapid change in economic conditions causing excess inventory
with our OEM partners. In Professional Visualization, we added new NVIDIA
Ampere architecture RTX GPUs for workstations. We also announced Omniverse
Avatar Cloud Engine and Omniverse Cloud and released a major update to NVIDIA
Omniverse Enterprise.

38

* * *

Table of Contents

Automotive revenue for fiscal year 2023 grew 60% compared to fiscal year 2022
to $903 million. In Automotive, we started production of the NVIDIA DRIVE Orin
autonomous vehicle SOC and introduced next-generation NVIDIA DRIVE Thor.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts
of assets, liabilities, revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and related
disclosure of contingencies. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates,
including those related to inventories, revenue recognition, and income taxes.
We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the
results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values
of assets and liabilities.

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant
judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial
statements. Our management has discussed the development and selection of
these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of
our Board of Directors. The Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures
relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

Inventories

Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis, which approximates
actual cost on an average or first-in, first-out basis. We charge cost of
sales for inventory provisions to write-down our inventory to the lower of
cost or net realizable value or for obsolete or excess inventory, and for
excess product purchase commitments. Most of our inventory provisions relate
to excess quantities of products or components, based on our inventory levels
and future product purchase commitments compared to assumptions about future
demand and market conditions, which requires management judgment.

Situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory or excess product
purchase commitments include changes in business and economic conditions,
changes in market conditions, sudden and significant decreases in demand for
our products, inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and
customer requirements, new product introductions resulting in less demand for
existing products or inconsistent spikes in demand due to unexpected end use
cases, failure to estimate customer demand properly, ordering in advance of
historical lead-times and the impact of changes in future demand, or increase
in demand for competitive products, including competitive actions.
Cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our
holding excess inventory.

The overall net effect on our gross margin from inventory provisions and sales
of items previously written down was an unfavorable impact of 7.5% in fiscal
year 2023 and 0.9% in fiscal year 2022. As a fabless semiconductor company, we
must make commitments to purchase inventory based on forecasts of future
customer demand. In doing so, we must account for our third-party
manufacturers' lead times and constraints. In the past, our manufacturing lead
times have been long, and in some cases, extended beyond twelve months for
some products. We place non-cancellable inventory orders for certain product
components in advance of our historical lead times, pay premiums and provide
deposits to secure future supply and capacity. We also adjust to other market
factors, such as product offerings and pricing actions by our competitors, new
product transitions, and macroeconomic conditions - all of which may impact
demand for our products.

Refer to the Gross Profit and Gross Margin discussion below in this
Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion.

Revenue Recognition

We derive our revenue from product sales, including hardware and systems,
license and development arrangements, software licensing, and cloud services.
We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1)
identification of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the
performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the transaction
price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations
in the contract (where revenue is allocated on a relative standalone selling

39

* * *

Table of Contents

price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the
standalone selling price for each performance obligation); and (5) recognition
of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.

Product Sales Revenue

Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of products
to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive
in exchange for those products. Certain products are sold with support or an
extended warranty for the incorporated system, hardware, and/or software.
Support and extended warranty revenue are recognized ratably over the service
period, or as services are performed. Revenue is recognized net of allowances
for returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.

For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by
establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the
time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates.
However, if product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed
historical return rates, we may determine that additional sales return
allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product
returns.

Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales
incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and
marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our
partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to
support our partners' activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. We
account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for
potential rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by
customers.

License and Development Arrangements

Our license and development arrangements with customers typically require
significant customization of our IP components. As a result, we recognize the
revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a
single performance obligation over the period in which the development
services are performed. We measure progress to completion based on actual cost
incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to
complete each project. If a loss on an arrangement becomes probable during a
period, we record a provision for such loss in that period.

Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part
IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

Income Taxes

We recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets
based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal
year by tax jurisdiction. We recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax
assets or liabilities, as appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects
attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; and we record a
valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax
benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to
be realized.

Our calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain
estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the
application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of deferred tax assets and
liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an
anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in the United
States, or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts
or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential United
States and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether,
and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that
payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is
less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income
tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements
accordingly.

As of the end of fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we had a valuation allowance of
$1.48 billion and $907 million, respectively, related to capital loss
carryforwards, state, and certain other deferred tax assets that management
determined not likely to be realized due, in part, to jurisdictional
projections of future taxable income, including capital gains. To the extent
realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would
recognize such deferred tax assets as income tax benefits during the period.

40

* * *

Table of Contents

We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-
not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the
technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax
expense.

Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part
IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

Change in Accounting Estimate

In February 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our
property, plant, and equipment. Based on advances in technology and usage
rate, we increased the estimated useful life of a majority of the server,
storage, and network equipment from three years to a range of four to five
years, and assembly and test equipment from five years to seven years. This
change in accounting estimate became effective at the beginning of fiscal year
2024. Based on the carrying amounts of a majority of our server, storage,
network, and assembly and test equipment, net in use as of the end of fiscal
year 2023, it is estimated this change will increase our fiscal year 2024
operating income by $133 million as a result of the reduction in depreciation
expense.

Results of Operations

A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for
fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022 is presented below. A discussion
regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year
2022 compared to fiscal year 2021 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2022, filed with the
SEC on March 18, 2022, which is available free of charge on the SEC's website
at http://www.sec.gov and at our investor relations website,
http://investor.nvidia.com.

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in
our Consolidated Statements of Income expressed as a percentage of revenue.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
Revenue| 100.0 | %| | 100.0 | %  
Cost of revenue| 43.1 | | | 35.1 |  
Gross profit| 56.9 | | | 64.9 |  
Operating expenses|  | |  
Research and development| 27.2 | | | 19.6 |  
Sales, general and administrative| 9.1 | | | 8.0 |  
Acquisition termination cost| 5.0 | | | -- |  
| | |  
Total operating expenses| 41.3 | | | 27.6 |  
Income from operations| 15.6 | | | 37.3 |  
Interest income| 1.0 | | | 0.1 |  
Interest expense| (1.0)| | | (0.9)|  
Other, net| (0.1)| | | 0.4 |  
Other income (expense), net| (0.1)| | | (0.4)|  
Income before income tax| 15.5 | | | 36.9 |  
Income tax expense (benefit)| (0.7)| | | 0.7 |  
Net income| 16.2 | %| | 36.2 | %  
  
41

* * *

Table of Contents

Revenue

Revenue by Reportable Segments

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | $  
Change| | %  
Change  
| | | | | | |  
| ($ in millions)  
Compute & Networking| $| 15,068 | | | $| 11,046 | | | $| 4,022 | | | 36 | %  
Graphics| 11,906 | | | 15,868 | | | (3,962)| | | (25)| %  
Total| $| 26,974 | | | $| 26,914 | | | $| 60 | | | -- | %  
  
Compute & Networking - The year-on-year increase was led by growth from
hyperscale customers and also reflects purchases made by several CSP partners
to support multi-year cloud service agreements for our new NVIDIA AI cloud
service offerings and our research and development activities. The increase
was also related to the growth in Automotive. CMP contributed an insignificant
amount in fiscal year 2023 compared to $550 million in fiscal year 2022.

Graphics - The year-on-year decrease primarily reflects lower sell-in to
partners to help reduce channel inventory levels as global macro-economic
conditions and COVID-19 related disruptions in China weighed on gaming demand.

Concentration of Revenue

Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 69%
and 84% of total revenue for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The
decline in revenue outside the U.S. was primarily driven by China and Taiwan
related to Data Center and Gaming. Revenue by geographic region is allocated
to countries based on the billed location even if the revenue may be
attributable to end customers in a different location.

No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for fiscal years 2023 and
2022.

Gross Profit and Gross Margin

Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of
revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors,
including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, board and device
costs, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated
with such purchases, final test yield fallout, inventory and warranty
provisions, memory and component costs, tariffs, and shipping costs. Cost of
revenue also includes acquisition-related costs, development costs for license
and service arrangements, IP-related costs, and stock-based compensation
related to personnel associated with manufacturing operations.

Gross margin was 56.9% and 64.9% for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively.
The decrease in fiscal year 2023 was primarily due to $2.17 billion of
inventory provisions in fiscal year 2023, which consists of approximately
$1.04 billion for inventory on hand and approximately $1.13 billion for
inventory purchase obligations in excess of our current demand projections.

Inventory provisions totaled $2.17 billion and $354 million for fiscal years
2023 and 2022, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-
off totaled $137 million and $111 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022,
respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an
unfavorable impact of 7.5% and 0.9% in fiscal years 2023 and 2022,
respectively.

Compute & Networking - The gross margin of our Compute & Networking segment
decreased during fiscal year 2023 when compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily
due to inventory provisions.

Graphics - The gross margin of our Graphics segment decreased during fiscal
year 2023 when compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily due to inventory and
related provisions and lower margins of GeForce GPUs.

42

* * *

Table of Contents

Operating Expenses

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | $  
Change| | %  
Change  
| | | | | | |  
| ($ in millions)  
Research and development expenses| $| 7,339 | | | $| 5,268 | | | $| 2,071 | |
| 39 | %  
% of revenue| 27.2 | %| | 19.6 | %| |  | |  
Sales, general and administrative expenses| 2,440 | | | 2,166 | | | 274 | | |
13 | %  
% of revenue| 9.1 | %| | 8.0 | %| |  | |  
Acquisition termination cost| 1,353 | | | -- | | | 1,353 | | | 100 | %  
% of revenue| 5.0 | %| | -- | %| | | |  
Total operating expenses| $| 11,132 | | | $| 7,434 | | | $| 3,698 | | | 50 | %  
% of revenue| 41.3 | %| | 27.6 | %| | | |  
  
The increase in research and development expense for fiscal year 2023 was
primarily driven by increased compensation, employee growth, engineering
development costs, and data center infrastructure.

The increase in sales, general and administrative expense for fiscal year 2023
was primarily driven by increased compensation and employee growth.

We recorded an acquisition termination cost related to the Arm transaction of
$1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment
provided at signing.

Other Income (Expense), Net

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | $  
Change| | %  
Change  
| | | | | | |  
| ($ in millions)  
Interest income| $| 267 | | | $| 29 | | | $| 238 | | | 821 | %  
Interest expense| (262)| | | (236)| | | (26)| | | 11 | %  
Other, net| (48)| | | 107 | | | (155)| | | (145)| %  
Other income (expense), net| $| (43)| | | $| (100)| | | $| 57 | | | (57)| %  
  
Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities. The increase in interest income was primarily due to
higher yields earned on our investments.

Interest expense is primarily comprised of coupon interest and debt discount
amortization related to our notes. The increase in expense reflects interest
on the $5.00 billion debt offering issued in June 2021.

Other, net, consists primarily of realized or unrealized gains and losses from
investments in non-affiliated entities and the impact of changes in foreign
currency rates. Change in other, net, compared to fiscal year 2022 was
primarily driven by mark-to-market losses from publicly traded equity
investments and changes in value from our non-affiliated private investments.
Refer to Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part
IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information
regarding our investments in non-affiliated entities.

Income Taxes

We recognized income tax benefit of $187 million for fiscal year 2023 and
income tax expense of $189 million for fiscal year 2022. Income tax as a
percentage of income before income tax was a benefit of 4.5% for fiscal year
2023 and an expense of 1.9% for fiscal year 2022.

Beginning in fiscal year 2023, the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA,
requires taxpayers to capitalize research and development expenditures and to
amortize domestic expenditures over five years and foreign expenditures over
fifteen years.

43

* * *

Table of Contents

The fiscal year 2023 effective tax rate includes the mandatory capitalization
and amortization of research and development expenses beginning in fiscal year
2023, which resulted in a greater FDII deduction and significantly increased
current taxes, with a corresponding deferred tax benefit at the relevant
statutory tax rate.

The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2023 as compared to
fiscal year 2022 was primarily due to increased tax benefits of the FDII
deduction, stock-based compensation, and the U.S. federal research tax credit,
relative to lower profitability. This is partially offset by the impact of an
increase in the proportion of earnings subject to U.S. tax in fiscal year 2023
and the one-time benefits of the domestication of a foreign subsidiary in
fiscal year 2022, or the Domestication.

Our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2023 was lower than the U.S. federal
statutory rate of 21% due primarily to tax benefits from the FDII deduction,
tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and the U.S. federal research
tax credit.

Our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2022 was lower than the U.S. federal
statutory rate of 21% due to tax benefits from the FDII deduction, income
earned in jurisdictions that are subject to taxes lower than the U.S. federal
statutory tax rate, excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation,
recognition of U.S. federal research tax credit and the one-time benefits of
the Domestication.

Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part
IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

  

Liquidity and Capital Resources

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
| | |  
| (In millions)  
Cash and cash equivalents| $| 3,389 | | | $| 1,990 |  
Marketable securities| 9,907 | | | 19,218 |  
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities| $| 13,296 | | | $| 21,208 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
| | |  
| (In millions)  
Net cash provided by operating activities| $| 5,641 | | | $| 9,108 |  
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities| $| 7,375 | | | $|
(9,830)|  
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities| $| (11,617)| | | $| 1,865
|  
  
As of January 29, 2023, we had $13.30 billion in cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities, a decrease of $7.91 billion from the end of fiscal year
2022. Our investment policy requires the purchase of highly rated fixed income
securities, the diversification of investment types and credit exposures, and
certain maturity limits on our portfolio.

Cash provided by operating activities decreased in fiscal year 2023 compared
to fiscal year 2022, primarily due to a decrease in net income adjusted for
certain non-cash items, such as the Arm acquisition termination cost of $1.35
billion, and higher tax payments, partially offset by changes in working
capital. Changes in working capital were primarily driven by lower accounts
receivable due to strong collections partially offset by timing of supplier
payments and inventory deliveries.

Cash provided by investing activities increased in fiscal year 2023 compared
to fiscal year 2022, primarily driven by lower purchases and higher sales and
maturities of marketable securities, offset by higher capital expenditures.

44

* * *

Table of Contents

Cash used in financing activities increased in fiscal year 2023 compared to
fiscal year 2022, due to share repurchases and the absence of debt issuance
proceeds in fiscal year 2023, offset by absence of debt repayment.

Liquidity

Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, our
marketable securities, and cash generated by our operations. At the end of
fiscal year 2023, we had $13.30 billion in cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet
our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, and for the
foreseeable future, including our future supply obligations and $1.25 billion
of debt repayment due in fiscal year 2024. We continuously evaluate our
liquidity and capital resources, including our access to external capital, to
ensure we can finance future capital requirements.

Our marketable securities consist of debt securities issued by the U.S.
government and its agencies, highly rated corporations and financial
institutions, and foreign government entities, as well as certificates of
deposit issued by highly rated financial institutions. These marketable
securities are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Refer to Note 8 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

During fiscal year 2024, we expect to use our existing cash and cash
equivalents, our marketable securities, and the cash generated by our
operations to fund our capital investments of approximately $1.10 billion to
$1.30 billion related to property and equipment.

Except for approximately $1.38 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities held outside the U.S. for which we have not accrued any
related foreign or state taxes if we repatriate these amounts to the U.S.,
substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held
outside of the U.S. at the end of fiscal year 2023 are available for use in
the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes.

Beginning in fiscal year 2023, the TCJA requires taxpayers to capitalize
research and development expenditures and to amortize domestic expenditures
over five years and foreign expenditures over fifteen years. The adverse cash
flow impact of mandatory capitalization will be reduced in future years as
capitalized research and development expenditures continue to amortize. Refer
to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV,
Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

Capital Return to Shareholders

During fiscal year 2023, we returned $10.04 billion in share repurchases and
$398 million in quarterly cash dividends. Our cash dividend program and the
payment of future cash dividends under that program are subject to our Board
of Directors' continuing determination that the dividend program and the
declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our
shareholders.

As of January 29, 2023, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications,
to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.23 billion
through December 2023.

  

45

* * *

Table of Contents

Outstanding Indebtedness and Commercial Paper Program

Our aggregate debt maturities as of January 29, 2023, by year payable, are as
follows:

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | January 29,  
2023  
| |  
| | (In millions)  
| |  
Due in one year| | $| 1,250 |  
Due in one to five years| | 2,250 |  
Due in five to ten years| | 4,000 |  
Due in greater than ten years| | 3,500 |  
Unamortized debt discount and issuance costs| | (47)|  
Net carrying amount| | 10,953 |  
Less short-term portion| | (1,250)|  
Total long-term portion| | $| 9,703 |  
  
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate
purposes. As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we had not issued any commercial
paper.

Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part
IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.

Material Cash Requirements and Other Obligations

For a description of our long-term debt, purchase obligations, and operating
lease obligations, refer to Note 12, Note 13, and Note 3 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, respectively.

We have unrecognized tax benefits of $1.02 billion, which includes related
interest and penalties of $95 million, recorded in non-current income tax
payable at the end of fiscal year 2023. We are unable to reasonably estimate
the timing of any potential tax liability, interest payments, or penalties in
individual years due to uncertainties in the underlying income tax positions
and the timing of the effective settlement of such tax positions. We are
currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for our fiscal
years 2018 and 2019. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
for further information.

Climate Change

To date, there has been no material impact to our results of operations
associated with global sustainability regulations, compliance, costs from
sourcing renewable energy or climate-related business trends.

Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part
IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of adoption of
new and recently issued accounting pronouncements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Investment and Interest Rate Risk

We are exposed to interest rate risk related to our fixed-rate investment
portfolio and outstanding debt. The investment portfolio is managed consistent
with our overall liquidity strategy in support of both working capital needs
and strategic growth of our businesses.

As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our
investment portfolio. According to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield
curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for
these investments of $17 million.

As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we had $11.00 billion of senior Notes
outstanding. We carry the Notes at face value less unamortized discount on our
Consolidated Balance Sheets. As the Notes bear interest at a fixed rate, we
have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates.
Refer to Note 12 of

46

* * *

Table of Contents

the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

Foreign Exchange Rate Risk

We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be
minimal as our sales are in United States dollars and foreign currency forward
contracts are used to offset movements of foreign currency exchange rate
movements. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in
other income or expense. The impact of foreign currency transaction gain or
loss included in determining net income was not significant for fiscal years
2023 and 2022.

Sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and
payment in United States dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange
rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States' dollar
relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which
could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the
value of the United States' dollar relative to other currencies could result
in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with
us. Additionally, we have international operations and incur expenditures in
currencies other than U.S. dollars. Our operating expenses benefit from a
stronger dollar and are adversely affected by a weaker dollar. The primary
currency we hedge is Israeli Shekel.

We use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign
currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. We designate these
contracts as cash flow hedges and assess the effectiveness of the hedge
relationships on a spot to spot basis. Gains or losses on the contracts are
recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, and then
reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are
recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur.

We also use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of
foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are
denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. These forward contracts were
not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair
value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense and offsets
the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary
assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense.

If the U.S. dollar strengthened by 10% as of January 29, 2023 and January 30,
2022, the amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been
approximately $112 million and $103 million lower, respectively. Change in
value recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) would be
expected to offset a corresponding change in hedged forecasted foreign
currency expenses when recognized.

If an adverse 10% foreign exchange rate change was applied to our balance
sheet hedging contracts, it would have resulted in an adverse impact on income
before taxes of approximately $36 million and $41 million as of January 29,
2023 and January 30, 2022, respectively. These changes in fair values would be
offset in other income (expense), net by corresponding change in fair values
of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming
the hedge contracts fully cover the foreign currency denominated monetary
assets and liabilities balances.

Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part
IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

ITEM 8\. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information required by this Item is set forth in our Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

ITEM 9\. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

  

47

* * *

Table of Contents

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Controls and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Based on their evaluation as of January 29, 2023, our management, including
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has concluded that
our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the
Exchange Act) were effective to provide reasonable assurance.

Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange
Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting as of January 29, 2023 based on the criteria set forth in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation
under the criteria set forth in Internal Control -- Integrated Framework, our
management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of January 29, 2023.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
January 29, 2023 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which
is included herein.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting
during the quarter ended January 29, 2023 that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting. In fiscal year 2022, we began an upgrade of our
enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system, which will update much of our
existing core financial systems. The ERP system is designed to accurately
maintain our financial records used to report operating results. The upgrade
will occur in phases. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2023, we
completed the consolidated financial reporting phase of the implementation,
which included updating our internal control over financial reporting. We will
continue to evaluate each quarter whether there are changes that materially
affect our internal control over financial reporting.

Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls

Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our
internal controls, will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no
matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.
Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are
resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative
to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no
evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues
and instances of fraud, if any, within NVIDIA have been detected.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None.

ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS

Not Applicable.

PART III

Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this report because
we will file with the SEC a definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation
14A, or the 2023 Proxy Statement, no later than 120 days after the end of
fiscal year 2023, and certain information included therein is incorporated
herein by reference.

  

48

* * *

Table of Contents

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Identification of Directors

Information regarding directors required by this item will be contained in our
2023 Proxy Statement under the caption "Proposal 1 - Election of Directors,"
and is hereby incorporated by reference.

Identification of Executive Officers

Reference is made to the information regarding executive officers appearing
under the heading "Information About Our Executive Officers" in Part I of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is hereby incorporated by
reference.

Identification of Audit Committee and Financial Experts

Information regarding our Audit Committee required by this item will be
contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the captions "Report of the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors" and "Information About the Board of
Directors and Corporate Governance," and is hereby incorporated by reference.

Material Changes to Procedures for Recommending Directors

Information regarding procedures for recommending directors required by this
item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption
"Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance," and is
hereby incorporated by reference.

Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports

Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act
required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the
caption "Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports," and is hereby incorporated by
reference.

Code of Conduct

Information regarding our Code of Conduct required by this item will be
contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption "Information About the
Board of Directors and Corporate Governance - Code of Conduct," and is hereby
incorporated by reference. The full text of our Code of Conduct and Financial
Team Code of Conduct are published on the Investor Relations portion of our
website, under Governance, at www.nvidia.com. If we make any amendments to
either code, or grant any waiver from a provision of either code to any
executive officer or director, we will promptly disclose the nature of the
amendment or waiver on our website or in a report on Form 8-K. The contents of
our website are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information regarding our executive compensation required by this item will be
contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the captions "Executive
Compensation", "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation",
"Director Compensation" and "Compensation Committee Report," and is hereby
incorporated by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Ownership of NVIDIA Securities

Information regarding ownership of NVIDIA securities required by this item
will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption "Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management," and is hereby
incorporated by reference.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

Information regarding our equity compensation plans required by this item will
be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption "Equity
Compensation Plan Information," and is hereby incorporated by reference.

49

* * *

Table of Contents

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE

Information regarding related transactions and director independence required
by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the captions
"Review of Transactions with Related Persons" and "Information About the Board
of Directors and Corporate Governance - Independence of the Members of the
Board of Directors," and is hereby incorporated by reference.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Information regarding accounting fees and services required by this item will
be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption "Fees Billed by the
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm," and is hereby incorporated by
reference.

50

* * *

Table of Contents

  

PART IV

ITEM 15\. EXHIBIT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | |  | Page  
(a)| 1.| | Financial Statements|  
| | | |  
|  | |

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 238)

|

52  
  
| | | |  
|  | |

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended January 29, 2023,
January 30, 2022, and January 31, 2021

|

54  
  
| | | |  
| | |

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended January
29, 2023, January 30, 2022, and January 31, 2021

|

55  
  
| | | |  
|  | |

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022

|

56  
  
| | | |  
|  | |

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended January
29, 2023, January 30, 2022, and January 31, 2021

|

57  
  
| | | |  
|  | |

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended January 29, 2023,
January 30, 2022, and January 31, 2021

|

58  
  
| | | |  
|  | |

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

|

59  
  
| | | |  
| 2.| | Financial Statement Schedule|  
| | | |  
|  | |

Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended January 29,
2023, January 30, 2022, and January 31, 2021

|

87  
  
| | | |  
| 3.| | Exhibits|  
| | | |  
|  | |

The exhibits listed in the accompanying index to exhibits are filed or
incorporated by reference as a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

|

88  
  
  

51

* * *

Table of Contents

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of NVIDIA Corporation

Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial
Reporting

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of NVIDIA
Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of January 29, 2023 and
January 30, 2022, and the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended January 29, 2023, including the related notes
and financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item
15(a)(2) (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial
statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over
financial reporting as of January 29, 2023, based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Company as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 29, 2023 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
as of January 29, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.

Basis for Opinions

The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, included in Management's Annual Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility
is to express opinions on the Company's consolidated financial statements and
on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our
audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal
securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing
procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated
financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures
that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test
basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our
audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and

52

* * *

Table of Contents

directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the
current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that
(i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated
financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective,
or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not
alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken
as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below,
providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts
or disclosures to which it relates.

Valuation of Inventories - Provisions for Excess or Obsolete Inventories and
Excess Product Purchase Commitments

As described in Notes 1, 10 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements,
the Company charges cost of sales for inventory provisions to write-down
inventory for excess or obsolete inventory and for excess product purchase
commitments. Most of the Company's inventory provisions relate to excess
quantities of products, based on the Company's inventory levels and future
product purchase commitments compared to assumptions about future demand and
market conditions. As of January 29, 2023, the Company's consolidated
inventories balance was $5,159 million and the Company's consolidated
outstanding inventory purchase and long-term supply obligations balance was
$4,920 million, of which a significant portion relates to inventory purchase
obligations.

The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures
relating to the valuation of inventories, specifically the provisions for
excess or obsolete inventories and excess product purchase commitments, is a
critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management when
developing provisions for excess or obsolete inventories and excess product
purchase commitments, including developing assumptions related to future
demand and market conditions. This in turn led to significant auditor
judgment, subjectivity, and effort in performing procedures and evaluating
management's assumptions related to future demand and market conditions.

Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit
evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated
financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of
controls relating to management's provisions for excess or obsolete
inventories and excess product purchase commitments, including controls over
management's assumptions related to future demand and market conditions. These
procedures also included, among others, testing management's process for
developing the provisions for excess or obsolete inventories and excess
product purchase commitments; evaluating the appropriateness of management's
approach; testing the completeness and accuracy of underlying data used in the
approach; and evaluating the reasonableness of management's assumptions
related to future demand and market conditions. Evaluating management's
assumptions related to future demand and market conditions involved evaluating
whether the assumptions used by management were reasonable considering (i)
current and past results, including historical product life cycle, (ii) the
consistency with external market and industry data, and (iii) changes in
technology.

  

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Jose, California

February 24, 2023

  

We have served as the Company's auditor since 2004.

53

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In millions, except per share data)| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
Revenue| $| 26,974 | | | $| 26,914 | | | $| 16,675 |  
Cost of revenue| 11,618 | | | 9,439 | | | 6,279 |  
Gross profit| 15,356 | | | 17,475 | | | 10,396 |  
Operating expenses|  | |  | |  
Research and development| 7,339 | | | 5,268 | | | 3,924 |  
Sales, general and administrative| 2,440 | | | 2,166 | | | 1,940 |  
Acquisition termination cost| 1,353 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total operating expenses| 11,132 | | | 7,434 | | | 5,864 |  
Income from operations| 4,224 | | | 10,041 | | | 4,532 |  
Interest income| 267 | | | 29 | | | 57 |  
Interest expense| (262)| | | (236)| | | (184)|  
Other, net| (48)| | | 107 | | | 4 |  
Other income (expense), net| (43)| | | (100)| | | (123)|  
Income before income tax| 4,181 | | | 9,941 | | | 4,409 |  
Income tax expense (benefit)| (187)| | | 189 | | | 77 |  
Net income| $| 4,368 | | | $| 9,752 | | | $| 4,332 |  
| | | | |  
Net income per share:| | | | |  
Basic| $| 1.76 | | | $| 3.91 | | | $| 1.76 |  
Diluted| $| 1.74 | | | $| 3.85 | | | $| 1.73 |  
| | | | |  
Weighted average shares used in per share computation:| | | | |  
Basic| 2,487 | | | 2,496 | | | 2,467 |  
Diluted| 2,507 | | | 2,535 | | | 2,510 |  
  
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

  

54

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(In millions)| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | |  
Net income| $| 4,368 | | | $| 9,752 | | | $| 4,332 |  
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax| | | | |  
Available-for-sale debt securities:| | | | |  
Net unrealized gain (loss)| (31)| | | (16)| | | 2 |  
Reclassification adjustments for net realized gain (loss) included in net
income| 1 | | | -- | | | (2)|  
Net change in unrealized loss| (30)| | | (16)| | | -- |  
Cash flow hedges:| | | | |  
Net unrealized gain (loss)| 47 | | | (43)| | | 9 |  
Reclassification adjustments for net realized gain (loss) included in net
income| (49)| | | 29 | | | 9 |  
Net change in unrealized gain (loss)| (2)| | | (14)| | | 18 |  
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax| (32)| | | (30)| | | 18 |  
Total comprehensive income| $| 4,336 | | | $| 9,722 | | | $| 4,350 |  
  
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

  

55

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except par value)| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
ASSETS|  | |  
Current assets:|  | |  
Cash and cash equivalents| $| 3,389 | | | $| 1,990 |  
Marketable securities| 9,907 | | | 19,218 |  
Accounts receivable, net| 3,827 | | | 4,650 |  
Inventories| 5,159 | | | 2,605 |  
Prepaid expenses and other current assets| 791 | | | 366 |  
Total current assets| 23,073 | | | 28,829 |  
Property and equipment, net| 3,807 | | | 2,778 |  
Operating lease assets| 1,038 | | | 829 |  
Goodwill| 4,372 | | | 4,349 |  
Intangible assets, net| 1,676 | | | 2,339 |  
Deferred income tax assets| 3,396 | | | 1,222 |  
Other assets| 3,820 | | | 3,841 |  
Total assets| $| 41,182 | | | $| 44,187 |  
| | |  
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY| | |  
Current liabilities:|  | |  
Accounts payable| $| 1,193 | | | $| 1,783 |  
Accrued and other current liabilities| 4,120 | | | 2,552 |  
Short-term debt| 1,250 | | | -- |  
Total current liabilities| 6,563 | | | 4,335 |  
Long-term debt| 9,703 | | | 10,946 |  
Long-term operating lease liabilities | 902 | | | 741 |  
Other long-term liabilities| 1,913 | | | 1,553 |  
Total liabilities| 19,081 | | | 17,575 |  
  
Commitments and contingencies - see Note 13

| | |  
| | |  
Shareholders' equity:|  | |  
  
Preferred stock, $0.001 par value; 2 shares authorized; none issued

| -- | | | -- |  
  
Common stock, $0.001 par value; 8,000 shares authorized; 2,466 shares issued
and outstanding as of January 29, 2023; 2,506 shares issued and outstanding as
of January 30, 2022

| 2 | | | 3 |  
Additional paid-in capital| 11,971 | | | 10,385 |  
| | |  
Accumulated other comprehensive loss| (43)| | | (11)|  
Retained earnings| 10,171 | | | 16,235 |  
Total shareholders' equity| 22,101 | | | 26,612 |  
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity| $| 41,182 | | | $| 44,187 |  
  
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

  

56

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Common Stock  
Outstanding| | Additional Paid-in| | Treasury| | Accumulated Other
Comprehensive| | Retained| | Total Shareholders'  
(In millions, except per share data)| Shares| | Amount| | Capital| |  Stock| |
Income (Loss)| |  Earnings| |  Equity  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Balances, January 26, 2020| 2,450 | | | $| 3 | | | $| 7,043 | | | $| (9,814)|
| | $| 1 | | | $| 14,971 | | | $| 12,204 |  
Net income| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 4,332 | | | 4,332 |  
Other comprehensive income| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 18 | | | -- |
| | 18 |  
Issuance of common stock from stock plans| 40 | | | -- | | | 194 | | | -- | |
| -- | | | -- | | | 194 |  
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units| (11)| | | -- | |
| -- | | | (942)| | | -- | | | -- | | | (942)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.16 per common share)

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (395)| | | (395)|  
Fair value of partially vested equity awards assumed in connection with
acquisitions| -- | | | -- | | | 86 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 86 |  
Stock-based compensation| -- | | | -- | | | 1,396 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | 1,396 |  
Balances, January 31, 2021| 2,479 | | | 3 | | | 8,719 | | | (10,756)| | | 19 |
| | 18,908 | | | 16,893 |  
Net income| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 9,752 | | | 9,752 |  
Other comprehensive loss| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (30)| | | -- | |
| (30)|  
Issuance of common stock from stock plans| 35 | | | -- | | | 281 | | | -- | |
| -- | | | -- | | | 281 |  
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units| (8)| | | -- | |
| (614)| | | (1,290)| | | -- | | | -- | | | (1,904)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.16 per common share)

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (399)| | | (399)|  
Fair value of partially vested equity awards assumed in connection with
acquisitions| -- | | | -- | | | 18 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 18 |  
Stock-based compensation| -- | | | -- | | | 2,001 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | 2,001 |  
  
Retirement of Treasury Stock

| -- | | | -- | | | (20)| | | 12,046 | | | -- | | | (12,026)| | | -- |  
Balances, January 30, 2022| 2,506 | | | 3 | | | 10,385 | | | -- | | | (11)| |
| 16,235 | | | 26,612 |  
Net income| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 4,368 | | | 4,368 |  
Other comprehensive loss| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (32)| | | -- | |
| (32)|  
Issuance of common stock from stock plans| 31 | | | -- | | | 355 | | | -- | |
| -- | | | -- | | | 355 |  
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units| (8)| | | -- | |
| (1,475)| | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (1,475)|  
Shares repurchased| (63)| | | (1)| | | (4)| | | -- | | | -- | | | (10,034)| |
| (10,039)|  
  
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.16 per common share)

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (398)| | | (398)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Stock-based compensation| -- | | | -- | | | 2,710 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | 2,710 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Balances, January 29, 2023| 2,466 | | | $| 2 | | | $| 11,971 | | | $| -- | | |
$| (43)| | | $| 10,171 | | | $| 22,101 |  
  
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

57

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | Year Ended| |  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
Cash flows from operating activities:| | |  | |  
Net income| $| 4,368 | | | $| 9,752 | | | $| 4,332 |  
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating
activities:| | |  | |  
Stock-based compensation expense| 2,709 | | | 2,004 | | | 1,397 |  
Depreciation and amortization| 1,544 | | | 1,174 | | | 1,098 |  
Acquisition termination cost| 1,353 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Losses (gains) on investments in non-affiliates, net| 45 | | | (100)| | | -- |  
Deferred income taxes| (2,164)| | | (406)| | | (282)|  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Other| (7)| | | 47 | | | (20)|  
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:| | |  | |  
Accounts receivable| 822 | | | (2,215)| | | (550)|  
Inventories| (2,554)| | | (774)| | | (524)|  
Prepaid expenses and other assets| (1,517)| | | (1,715)| | | (394)|  
Accounts payable| (551)| | | 568 | | | 312 |  
Accrued and other current liabilities| 1,341 | | | 581 | | | 290 |  
Other long-term liabilities| 252 | | | 192 | | | 163 |  
Net cash provided by operating activities| 5,641 | | | 9,108 | | | 5,822 |  
Cash flows from investing activities:| | |  | |  
Proceeds from maturities of marketable securities| 19,425 | | | 15,197 | | |
8,792 |  
Proceeds from sales of marketable securities| 1,806 | | | 1,023 | | | 527 |  
Purchases of marketable securities| (11,897)| | | (24,787)| | | (19,308)|  
Purchases related to property and equipment and intangible assets| (1,833)| |
| (976)| | | (1,128)|  
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired| (49)| | | (263)| | | (8,524)|  
Investments and other, net| (77)| | | (24)| | | (34)|  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities| 7,375 | | | (9,830)| | |
(19,675)|  
Cash flows from financing activities:| | |  | |  
Proceeds related to employee stock plans| 355 | | | 281 | | | 194 |  
  
Payments related to repurchases of common stock

| (10,039)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Payments related to tax on restricted stock units| (1,475)| | | (1,904)| | |
(942)|  
Dividends paid| (398)| | | (399)| | | (395)|  
Principal payments on property and equipment| (58)| | | (83)| | | (17)|  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Issuance of debt, net of issuance costs| -- | | | 4,977 | | | 4,968 |  
Repayment of debt| -- | | | (1,000)| | | -- |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Other| (2)| | | (7)| | | (4)|  
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities| (11,617)| | | 1,865 | | |
3,804 |  
Change in cash and cash equivalents| 1,399 | | | 1,143 | | | (10,049)|  
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period| 1,990 | | | 847 | | | 10,896
|  
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period| $| 3,389 | | | $| 1,990 | | | $|
847 |  
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:| | | | |  
Cash paid for income taxes, net| $| 1,404 | | | $| 396 | | | $| 249 |  
Cash paid for interest| $| 254 | | | $| 246 | | | $| 138 |  
  
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

58

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

  

Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Our Company

Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in
California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.

All references to "NVIDIA," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" mean NVIDIA
Corporation and its subsidiaries.

Fiscal Year

We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
Fiscal years 2023 and 2022 were both 52-week years. Fiscal year 2021 was a
53-week year.

Reclassifications

Certain prior fiscal year balances have been reclassified to conform to the
current fiscal year presentation.

Prior period intangible asset gross carrying amount and accumulated
amortization in Note 7 have been adjusted to write off immaterial fully
amortized intangible assets as of January 30, 2022.

Principles of Consolidation

Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA
Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue
and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
materially from our estimates. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our
estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, cash equivalents
and marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes,
goodwill, stock-based compensation, litigation, investigation and settlement
costs, restructuring and other charges, and other contingencies. The inputs
into our judgments and estimates consider the economic implications of
COVID-19. These estimates are based on historical facts and various other
assumptions that we believe are reasonable.

In February 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our
property, plant, and equipment. Based on advances in technology and usage
rate, we increased the estimated useful life of a majority of the server,
storage, and network equipment from three to a range of four to five years,
and assembly and test equipment from five to seven years. This change in
accounting estimate became effective at the beginning of fiscal year 2024.
Based on the carrying amounts of a majority of our server, storage, network,
and assembly and test equipment, net in use as of the end of fiscal year 2023,
it is estimated this change will increase our fiscal year 2024 operating
income by $133 million as a result of the reduction in depreciation expense.

Revenue Recognition

We derive our revenue from product sales, including hardware and systems,
license and development arrangements, software licensing, and cloud services.
We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1)
identification of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the
performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the transaction
price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations
in the contract (where revenue is allocated on a relative standalone selling
price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the
standalone selling price for each performance obligation); and (5) recognition
of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.

Product Sales Revenue

Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of products
to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive
in exchange for those products. Certain products are

59

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

sold with support or an extended warranty for the incorporated system,
hardware, and/or software. Support and extended warranty revenue are
recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, customer programs and any
taxes collected from customers.

For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by
establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the
time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates.
However, if product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed
historical return rates, we may determine that additional sales return
allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product
returns.

Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales
incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and
marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our
partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to
support our partners' activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. We
account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for
potential rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by
customers.

License and Development Arrangements

Our license and development arrangements with customers typically require
significant customization of our IP components. As a result, we recognize the
revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a
single performance obligation over the period in which the development
services are performed. We measure progress to completion based on actual cost
incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to
complete each project. If a loss on an arrangement becomes probable during a
period, we record a provision for such loss in that period.

Software Licensing

Our software licenses provide our customers with a right to use the software
when it is made available to the customer. Customers may purchase either
perpetual licenses or subscriptions to licenses, which differ mainly in the
duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Software licenses
are frequently sold along with the right to receive, on a when-and-if
available basis, future unspecified software updates and upgrades. Revenue
from software licenses is recognized up front when the software is made
available to the customer. Software support revenue is recognized ratably over
the service period, or as services are performed.

Cloud Services

Cloud services, which allow customers to use hosted software and hardware
infrastructure without taking possession of the software or hardware, are
provided on a subscription basis or a combination of subscription plus usage.
Revenue related to subscription-based cloud services is recognized ratably
over the contract period. Revenue related to cloud services based on usage is
recognized as usage occurs.

Product Warranties

We generally offer a limited warranty to end-users that ranges from one to
three years for products in order to repair or replace products for any
manufacturing defects or hardware component failures. Cost of revenue includes
the estimated cost of product warranties that are calculated at the point of
revenue recognition. Under limited circumstances, we may offer an extended
limited warranty to customers for certain products. We also accrue for known
warranty and indemnification issues if a loss is probable and can be
reasonably estimated.

Stock-based Compensation

We use the closing trading price of our common stock on the date of grant,
minus a dividend yield discount, as the fair value of awards of restricted
stock units, or RSUs, and performance stock units that are based on our
corporate financial performance targets, or PSUs. We use a Monte Carlo
simulation on the date of grant to estimate the fair value of performance
stock units that are based on market conditions, or market-based PSUs. The
compensation expense for RSUs and market-based PSUs is recognized using a
straight-line

60

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

attribution method over the requisite employee service period while
compensation expense for PSUs is recognized using an accelerated amortization
model. We estimate the fair value of shares to be issued under our employee
stock purchase plan, or ESPP, using the Black-Scholes model at the
commencement of an offering period in March and September of each year. Stock-
based compensation for our ESPP is expensed using an accelerated amortization
model. Additionally, we estimate forfeitures at least annually based on
historical experience and revise the estimates of forfeiture in subsequent
periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.

Litigation, Investigation and Settlement Costs

We currently, are, and will likely continue to be subject to claims,
litigation, and other actions, including potential regulatory proceedings,
involving patent and other intellectual property matters, taxes, labor and
employment, competition and antitrust, commercial disputes, goods and services
offered by us and by third parties, and other matters. There are many
uncertainties associated with any litigation or investigation, and we cannot
be certain that these actions or other third-party claims against us will be
resolved without litigation, fines and/or substantial settlement payments or
judgments. If information becomes available that causes us to determine that a
loss in any of our pending litigation, investigations or settlements is
probable, and we can reasonably estimate the loss associated with such events,
we will record the loss in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, the actual
liability in any such litigation or investigation may be materially different
from our estimates, which could require us to record additional costs.

Foreign Currency Remeasurement

We use the United States dollar as our functional currency for our
subsidiaries. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured
into United States dollars at end-of-period exchange rates. Non-monetary
assets and liabilities such as property and equipment and equity are
remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are remeasured
at exchange rates in effect during each period, except for those expenses
related to non-monetary balance sheet amounts, which are remeasured at
historical exchange rates. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement
are included in earnings in our Consolidated Statements of Income and to date
have not been significant.

Income Taxes

We recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets
based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal
year by tax jurisdiction. We recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax
assets or liabilities, as appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects
attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; and we record a
valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax
benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to
be realized.

Our calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain
estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the
application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of deferred tax assets and
liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an
anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in the United
States, or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts
or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential United
States and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether,
and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that
payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is
less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income
tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements
accordingly.

As of January 29, 2023, we had a valuation allowance of $1.48 billion related
to capital loss carryforwards, state, and certain other deferred tax assets
that management determined are not likely to be realized due to jurisdictional
projections of future taxable income, including capital gains, tax attributes
usage limitation by certain jurisdictions, and potential utilization
limitations of tax attributes acquired as a result of stock ownership changes.
To the extent realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-
not, we would recognize such deferred tax assets as an income tax benefit
during the period.

61

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-
not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the
technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax
expense.

Net Income Per Share

Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is
computed using the weighted average number of common and potentially dilutive
shares outstanding during the period, using the treasury stock method. Under
the treasury stock method, the effect of equity awards outstanding is not
included in the computation of diluted net income per share for periods when
their effect is anti-dilutive.

Cash and Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities

We consider all highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into
cash and have an original maturity of three months or less at the time of
purchase to be cash equivalents. Marketable securities consist of highly
liquid debt investments with maturities of greater than three months when
purchased. We currently classify our investments as current based on the
nature of the investments and their availability for use in current
operations.

We classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities related to debt
securities at the date of acquisition as available-for-sale. These available-
for-sale debt securities are reported at fair value with the related
unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income
or loss, a component of shareholders' equity, net of tax. The fair value of
interest-bearing debt securities includes accrued interest. Realized gains and
losses on the sale of marketable securities are determined using the specific-
identification method and recorded in the other income (expense), net, section
of our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Available-for-sale debt investments are subject to a periodic impairment
review. If the estimated fair value of available-for-sale debt securities is
less than its amortized cost basis, we determine if the difference, if any, is
caused by expected credit losses and write-down the amortized cost basis of
the securities if it is more likely than not we will be required or we intend
to sell the securities before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Allowances
for credit losses and write-downs are recognized in the other income
(expense), net section of our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying value of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable
and accrued liabilities approximate their fair values due to their relatively
short maturities as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022. Marketable
securities are comprised of available-for-sale securities that are reported at
fair value with the related unrealized gains or losses included in accumulated
other comprehensive income or loss, a component of shareholders' equity, net
of tax. Fair value of the marketable securities is determined based on quoted
market prices. Derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or
liabilities and are measured at fair value. The accounting for changes in the
fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and
the resulting designation. For derivative instruments designated as fair value
hedges, the gains or losses are recognized in earnings in the periods of
change together with the offsetting losses or gains on the hedged items
attributed to the risk being hedged. For derivative instruments designated as
cash-flow hedges, the effective portion of the gains or losses on the
derivatives is initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income
or loss and is subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged exposure is
recognized in earnings. For derivative instruments not designated for hedge
accounting, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit
risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, marketable securities, and
accounts receivable. Our investment policy requires the purchase of highly-
rated fixed income securities, the diversification of investment type and
credit exposures, and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration. We
perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and
maintain an allowance for potential credit losses. This allowance consists of
an amount

62

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated
exposure. Our overall estimated exposure excludes amounts covered by credit
insurance and letters of credit.

Inventories

Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis, which approximates
actual cost on an average or first-in, first-out basis. Inventory costs
consist primarily of the cost of semiconductors, including wafer fabrication,
assembly, testing and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor
and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, and
shipping costs, as well as the cost of purchased memory products and other
component parts. We charge cost of sales for inventory provisions to write-
down our inventory to the lower of cost or net realizable value or for
obsolete or excess inventory, and for excess product purchase commitments.
Most of our inventory provisions relate to excess quantities of products,
based on our inventory levels and future product purchase commitments compared
to assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Once inventory has
been written-off or written-down, it creates a new cost basis for the
inventory that is not subsequently written-up. We record a liability for
noncancelable purchase commitments with suppliers for quantities in excess of
our future demand forecasts consistent with our valuation of obsolete or
excess inventory.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation of property and
equipment is computed using the straight-line method based on the estimated
useful lives of the assets, generally three to five years. Once an asset is
identified for retirement or disposition, the related cost and accumulated
depreciation or amortization are removed, and a gain or loss is recorded. The
estimated useful lives of our buildings are up to thirty years. Depreciation
expense includes the amortization of assets recorded under finance leases.
Leasehold improvements and assets recorded under finance leases are amortized
over the shorter of the expected lease term or the estimated useful life of
the asset.

Leases

We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception. Operating
leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease
assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease
liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Operating lease assets
represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease
liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease
term.

Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present
value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental
borrowing rate. Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs
incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives. Our lease
terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably
certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the lease term.

We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating
lease assets and liabilities.

Goodwill

Goodwill is subject to our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of
our fiscal year, or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. For
the purposes of completing our impairment test, we perform either a
qualitative or a quantitative analysis on a reporting unit basis.

Qualitative factors include industry and market considerations, overall
financial performance, and other relevant events and factors affecting the
reporting units.

The quantitative impairment test considers both the income approach and the
market approach to estimate a reporting unit's fair value. The income and
market valuation approaches consider factors that include, but are not limited
to, prospective financial information, growth rates, residual values, discount
rates and comparable multiples from publicly traded companies in our industry
and require us to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding industry
economic factors and the future profitability of our business.

  

63

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets

Intangible assets primarily represent acquired intangible assets including
developed technology, in-process research and development, or IPR&D, and
customer relationships, as well as rights acquired under technology licenses,
patents, and acquired IP. We currently amortize our intangible assets with
finite lives over periods ranging from one to twenty years using a method that
reflects the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible asset
are consumed or otherwise used up or, if that pattern cannot be reliably
determined, using a straight-line amortization method. We initially capitalize
the fair value of IPR&D as an intangible asset with an indefinite life. When
IPR&D projects are completed, we reclassify the IPR&D as an amortizable
purchased intangible asset and amortize over the asset's estimated useful
life.

Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment and intangible assets
subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or
asset group may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets or asset groups
to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an
asset or asset group to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to
be generated by the asset or asset group. If the carrying amount of an asset
or asset group exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge
is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset or
asset group exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset or asset group. Fair
value is determined based on the estimated discounted future cash flows
expected to be generated by the asset or asset group. Assets and liabilities
to be disposed of would be separately presented in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet and the assets would be reported at the lower of the carrying amount or
fair value less costs to sell, and would no longer be depreciated.

Business Combination

We allocate the fair value of the purchase price of an acquisition to the
tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired,
including IPR&D, based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair
value of the purchase price over the fair values of these net tangible and
intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Management's estimates of
fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but our
estimates and assumptions are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement.
The estimates and assumptions used in valuing intangible assets include, but
are not limited to, the amount and timing of projected future cash flows,
discount rate used to determine the present value of these cash flows and
asset lives. These estimates are inherently uncertain and, therefore, actual
results may differ from the estimates made. As a result, during the
measurement period of up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record
adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the
corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement
period or final determination of the fair value of the purchase price of an
acquisition, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to
our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business
combination and expensed as incurred.

Investment in Non-Affiliated Entities

Non-marketable equity investments in privately-held companies are recorded at
fair value on a non-recurring basis only if an impairment or observable price
adjustment occurs in the period with changes in fair value recorded through
net income. These investments are valued using observable and unobservable
inputs or data in an inactive market and the valuation requires our judgment
due to the absence of market prices and inherent lack of liquidity. The
estimated fair value is based on quantitative and qualitative factors
including subsequent financing activities by the investee.

Marketable equity investments in publicly-held companies are recorded at fair
value with the related unrealized and realized gains and losses recognized in
other income (expense), net.

Note 2 - Business Combination

Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement

In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank announced the termination of the Share
Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm from SoftBank. The
parties agreed to terminate due to significant

64

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We
recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023
reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing.

Acquisition of Mellanox Technologies, Ltd.

In April 2020, we completed the acquisition of all outstanding shares of
Mellanox for a total purchase consideration of $7.13 billion.

Purchase Price Allocation

The aggregate purchase consideration has been allocated as follows (in
millions):

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Purchase Price| |  
Cash paid for outstanding Mellanox ordinary shares (1)| | $| 7,033 |  
Cash for Mellanox equity awards (2)| | 16 |  
Total cash consideration| | 7,049 |  
Fair value of Mellanox equity awards assumed by NVIDIA (3)| | 85 |  
Total purchase consideration| | $| 7,134 |  
| |  
Allocation| |  
Cash and cash equivalents| | $| 115 |  
Marketable securities| | 699 |  
Accounts receivable, net| | 216 |  
Inventories| | 320 |  
Prepaid expenses and other assets| | 179 |  
Property and equipment, net| | 144 |  
Goodwill| | 3,431 |  
Intangible assets| | 2,970 |  
Accounts payable| | (136)|  
Accrued and other current liabilities| | (236)|  
Income tax liability| | (191)|  
Deferred income tax liability| | (258)|  
Other long-term liabilities| | (119)|  
| | $| 7,134 |  
  
  

(1) Represents the cash consideration of $125.00 per share paid to Mellanox
shareholders for approximately 56 million shares of outstanding Mellanox
ordinary shares.

(2) Represents the cash consideration for the settlement of approximately 249
thousand Mellanox stock options held by employees and non-employee directors
of Mellanox.

(3) Represents the fair value of Mellanox's stock-based compensation awards
attributable to pre-combination services.

  

We allocated the purchase price to tangible and identified intangible assets
acquired and liabilities assumed based on the estimated fair values.

The goodwill is primarily attributable to the planned growth in the combined
business of NVIDIA and Mellanox. Goodwill is not amortized to earnings, but
instead is reviewed for impairment at least annually, absent any interim
indicators of impairment. Goodwill recognized in the acquisition is not
expected to be deductible for foreign tax purposes. Goodwill arising from the
Mellanox acquisition has been allocated to the Compute and Networking segment.
Refer to Note 17 - Segment Information for further details on segments.

The operating results of Mellanox have been included in our consolidated
financial statements for fiscal year 2021 since the acquisition date of April
27, 2020. Revenue attributable to Mellanox was approximately 10% for fiscal
year 2021. There is not a practical way to determine net income attributable
to Mellanox due to

65

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

integration. Acquisition-related costs attributable to Mellanox of $28 million
were included in selling, general and administrative expense for fiscal year
2021.

Intangible Assets

The estimated fair value and useful life of the acquired intangible assets at
the time of the acquisition are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Fair Value| | Useful Lives  
| (In millions)| |  
Developed technology (1)| $| 1,640 | | | 5 years  
Customer relationships (2)| 440 | | | 3 years  
Order backlog (3)| 190 | | | Based on actual shipments  
Trade names (4)| 70 | | | 5 years  
Total identified finite-lived intangible assets| 2,340 | | |  
IPR&D (5)| 630 | | | N/A  
Total identified intangible assets| $| 2,970 | | |  
  
  

(1) The fair value of developed technology was identified using the Multi-
Period Excess Earnings Method.

(2) Customer relationships represent the fair value of the existing
relationships using the With and Without Method.

(3) Order backlog represents primarily the fair value of purchase arrangements
with customers using the Multi-Period Excess Earnings Method. The intangible
asset was fully amortized as of January 31, 2021.

(4) Trade names primarily relate to Mellanox trade names and fair value was
determined by applying the Relief-from-Royalty Method under the income
approach.

(5) The fair value of IPR&D was determined using the Multi-Period Excess
Earnings Method.

  

The fair value of the finite-lived intangible assets will be amortized over
the estimated useful lives based on the pattern in which the economic benefits
are expected to be received to cost of revenue and operating expenses.

Mellanox had an IPR&D project associated with the next generation interconnect
product that had not yet reached technological feasibility as of the
acquisition date. Accordingly, we recorded an indefinite-lived intangible
asset of $630 million for the fair value of this project, which was initially
not amortized. In fiscal year 2023, we commenced amortization of the IPR&D
intangible asset.

Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Information

The following unaudited pro forma financial information summarizes the
combined results of operations for NVIDIA and Mellanox as if the companies
were combined as of the beginning of fiscal year 2020:

| | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pro Forma  
| Year Ended  
| January 31, 2021| |  
| | |  
| (In millions)  
Revenue| $| 17,104 | | |  
Net income| $| 4,757 | | |  
  
The unaudited pro forma information presented above includes adjustments
related to amortization of acquired intangible assets, adjustments to stock-
based compensation expense, fair value of acquired inventory, and transaction
costs. The unaudited pro forma information is for informational purposes only
and is not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations of
the combined business had the acquisition actually occurred at the beginning
of fiscal year 2020 or of the results of our future operations of the combined
businesses.

66

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

The pro forma results for fiscal year 2021 excluded the inventory step-up
expense of $161 million. There were no other material nonrecurring
adjustments.

Note 3 - Leases

Our lease obligations primarily consist of operating leases for our
headquarters complex, domestic and international office facilities, and data
center space, with lease periods expiring between fiscal years 2024 and 2035.

Future minimum lease payments under our non-cancelable operating leases as of
January 29, 2023, are as follows:

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Operating Lease Obligations  
| (In millions)  
Fiscal Year:|  
2024| $| 220 |  
2025| 198 |  
2026| 180 |  
2027| 166 |  
2028| 144 |  
2029 and thereafter| 323 |  
Total| 1,231 |  
Less imputed interest| 153 |  
Present value of net future minimum lease payments| 1,078 |  
Less short-term operating lease liabilities| 176 |  
Long-term operating lease liabilities| $| 902 |  
  
In addition to above, we have operating leases, primarily for our data
centers, that are expected to commence within fiscal years 2024 and 2025 with
lease terms of 2 to 8 years for $463 million.

  

Operating lease expense for fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021 was $193
million, $168 million, $145 million, respectively. Short-term and variable
lease expenses for fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021 were not significant.

  

Other information related to leases was as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29, 2023| | January 30, 2022| | January 31, 2021  
| | | | |  
| (In millions)  
Supplemental cash flows information| | |  | |  
Operating cash flows used for operating leases| $| 184 | | | $| 154 | | | $|
141 |  
Operating lease assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations| $| 358 | |
| $| 266 | | | $| 200 |  
  
  

As of January 29, 2023, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining
lease term of 6.8 years and a weighted average discount rate of 3.21%. As of
January 30, 2022, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease
term of 7.1 years and a weighted average discount rate of 2.51%.

  

67

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

Note 4 - Stock-Based Compensation

Our stock-based compensation expense is associated with restricted stock
units, or RSUs, performance stock units that are based on our corporate
financial performance targets, or PSUs, performance stock units that are based
on market conditions, or market-based PSUs, and our ESPP.

Our Consolidated Statements of Income include stock-based compensation
expense, net of amounts allocated to inventory, as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | |  
| (In millions)  
Cost of revenue| $| 138 | | | $| 141 | | | $| 88 |  
Research and development| 1,892 | | | 1,298 | | | 860 |  
Sales, general and administrative| 680 | | | 565 | | | 449 |  
Total| $| 2,710 | | | $| 2,004 | | | $| 1,397 |  
  
Stock-based compensation capitalized in inventories was not significant during
fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021.

The following is a summary of equity awards granted under our equity incentive
plans:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | |  
| (In millions, except per share data)  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
RSUs, PSUs and Market-based PSUs| | | | |  
Awards granted| 25 | | | 18 | | | 36 |  
Estimated total grant-date fair value| $| 4,505 | | | $| 3,492 | | | $| 2,764
|  
Weighted average grant-date fair value per share| $| 183.72 | | | $| 190.69 |
| | $| 76.81 |  
| | | | |  
ESPP| | | | |  
Shares purchased| 3 | | | 5 | | | 4 |  
Weighted average price per share| $| 122.54 | | | $| 56.36 | | | $| 34.80 |  
Weighted average grant-date fair value per share| $| 51.87 | | | $| 23.24 | |
| $| 16.91 |  
  
As of January 29, 2023, there was $6.56 billion of aggregate unearned stock-
based compensation expense. This amount is expected to be recognized over a
weighted average period of 2.6 years for RSUs, PSUs, and market-based PSUs,
and 1.0 year for ESPP.

68

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

The fair value of shares issued under our ESPP have been estimated with the
following assumptions:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | |  
| (Using the Black-Scholes model)  
ESPP| | | | |  
Weighted average expected life (in years)|

0.1-2.0

| |

0.1-2.0

| |

0.1-2.0  
  
Risk-free interest rate|

--%-4.6%

| |

--%-0.5%

| |

0.1%-1.6%  
  
Volatility|

43%-72%

| |

20%-58%

| |

26%-89%  
  
Dividend yield|

0.1%

| |

0.1%

| |

0.1%-0.3%  
  
For ESPP shares, the expected term represents the average term from the first
day of the offering period to the purchase date. The risk-free interest rate
assumption used to value ESPP shares is based upon observed interest rates on
Treasury bills appropriate for the expected term. Our expected stock price
volatility assumption for ESPP is estimated using historical volatility. For
awards granted, we use the dividend yield at grant date. Our RSU, PSU, and
market-based PSU awards are not eligible for cash dividends prior to vesting;
therefore, the fair values of RSUs, PSUs, and market-based PSUs are discounted
for the dividend yield.

Additionally, for RSU, PSU, and market-based PSU awards, we estimate
forfeitures semi-annually and revise the estimates of forfeiture in subsequent
periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures are
estimated based on historical experience.

Equity Incentive Program

We grant or have granted stock options, RSUs, PSUs, market-based PSUs, and
stock purchase rights under the following equity incentive plans. In addition,
in connection with our acquisitions of various companies, we have assumed
certain stock-based awards granted under their stock incentive plans and
converted them into our RSUs.

Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan

In 2007, our shareholders approved the NVIDIA Corporation 2007 Equity
Incentive Plan, as most recently amended and restated, or the 2007 Plan.

The 2007 Plan authorizes the issuance of incentive stock options, non-
statutory stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock
appreciation rights, performance stock awards, performance cash awards, and
other stock-based awards to employees, directors and consultants. Only our
employees may receive incentive stock options. As of January 29, 2023, up to
47 million shares of our common stock could be issued pursuant to stock awards
granted under the 2007 Plan, of which 2 million shares were issuable upon the
exercise of outstanding stock options. All options are fully vested, the last
of which will expire by December 2023 if not exercised. Currently, we grant
RSUs, PSUs and market-based PSUs under the 2007 Plan, under which, as of
January 29, 2023, there were 160 million shares available for future grants.

Subject to certain exceptions, RSUs granted to employees vest (A) over a four-
year period, subject to continued service, with 25% vesting on a pre-
determined date that is close to the anniversary of the date of grant and
6.25% vesting quarterly thereafter, (B) over a three-year period, subject to
continued service, with 40% vesting on a pre-determined date that is close to
the anniversary of the date of grant and 7.5% vesting quarterly thereafter, or
(C) over a four-year period, subject to continued service, with 6.25% vesting
quarterly. PSUs vest over a four-year period, subject to continued service,
with 25% vesting on a pre-determined date that is close to the anniversary of
the date of grant and 6.25% vesting quarterly thereafter. Market-based PSUs
vest 100% on approximately the three-year anniversary of the date of grant.
However, the number of shares subject to both PSUs and market-based PSUs that
are eligible to vest is generally determined by the Compensation Committee
based on achievement of pre-determined criteria.

  

69

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

Amended and Restated 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan

In 2012, our shareholders approved the NVIDIA Corporation 2012 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan, as most recently amended and restated, or the 2012 Plan.

Employees who participate in the 2012 Plan may have up to 15% of their
earnings withheld to purchase shares of common stock. The Board may decrease
this percentage at its discretion. Each offering period is approximately 24
months, which is generally divided into four purchase periods of six months.
The price of common stock purchased under our 2012 Plan will be equal to 85%
of the lower of the fair market value of the common stock on the commencement
date of each offering period or the fair market value of the common stock on
each purchase date within the offering. As of January 29, 2023, we had 230
million shares reserved for future issuance under the 2012 Plan.

Equity Award Activity

The following is a summary of our equity award transactions under our equity
incentive plans:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| RSUs, PSUs and Market-based PSUs Outstanding  
| Number of Shares| | Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value  
| | |  
| (In millions, except per share data)  
Balances, January 30, 2022| 46 | | | $| 114.19 |  
Granted| 25 | | | $| 183.72 |  
Vested restricted stock| (24)| | | $| 100.06 |  
Canceled and forfeited| (2)| | | $| 141.17 |  
Balances, January 29, 2023| 45 | | | $| 158.45 |  
Vested and expected to vest after January 29, 2023| 45 | | | $| 158.35 |  
  
  

As of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, there were 160 million and 131
million shares, respectively, of common stock available for future grants
under our equity incentive plans.

As of January 29, 2023, the total intrinsic value of options currently
exercisable and outstanding was $410 million, with an average exercise price
of $3.79 per share and an average remaining term of 0.5 years. The total
intrinsic value of options exercised was $642 million, $741 million, and $521
million for fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Upon the exercise
of an option, we issue a new share of stock.

The total fair value of RSUs and PSUs, as of their respective vesting dates,
during the years ended January 29, 2023, January 30, 2022, and January 31,
2021, was $4.27 billion, $5.56 billion, and $2.67 billion, respectively.

70

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

Note 5 - Net Income Per Share

The following is a reconciliation of the denominator of the basic and diluted
net income per share computations for the periods presented:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | |  
| (In millions, except per share data)  
Numerator:|  | |  | |  
Net income| $| 4,368 | | | $| 9,752 | | | $| 4,332 |  
Denominator:|  | |  | |  
Basic weighted average shares| 2,487 | | | 2,496 | | | 2,467 |  
Dilutive impact of outstanding equity awards| 20 | | | 39 | | | 43 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Diluted weighted average shares| 2,507 | | | 2,535 | | | 2,510 |  
Net income per share:|  | |  | |  
Basic (1)| $| 1.76 | | | $| 3.91 | | | $| 1.76 |  
Diluted (2)| $| 1.74 | | | $| 3.85 | | | $| 1.73 |  
  
Equity awards excluded from diluted net income per share because their effect
would have been anti-dilutive

| 40 | | | 21 | | | 12 |  
  
(1) Calculated as net income divided by basic weighted average shares.

(2) Calculated as net income divided by diluted weighted average shares.

Note 6 - Goodwill

As of January 29, 2023, the total carrying amount of goodwill was $4.37
billion, consisting of goodwill balances allocated to our Compute & Networking
and Graphics reporting units of $4.00 billion and $370 million, respectively.
As of January 30, 2022, the total carrying amount of goodwill was $4.35
billion, consisting of goodwill balances allocated to our Compute & Networking
and Graphics reporting units of $3.99 billion and $361 million, respectively.
Goodwill increased by $23 million in fiscal year 2023 from acquisitions. We
assigned $14 million of the increase in goodwill to our Compute & Networking
segment and assigned $9 million of the increase to our Graphics segment.
During the fourth quarters of fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021, we completed
our annual qualitative impairment tests and concluded that goodwill was not
impaired in any of these years.

Note 7 - Amortizable Intangible Assets

The components of our amortizable intangible assets are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29, 2023| | January 30, 2022  
|

Gross

Carrying

Amount

| | Accumulated  
Amortization| | Net  
Carrying  
Amount| |

Gross

Carrying

Amount

| | Accumulated  
Amortization| | Net  
Carrying  
Amount  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| (In millions)  
Acquisition-related intangible assets (1)| $| 3,093 | | | $| (1,614)| | | $|
1,479 | | | $| 3,061 | | | $| (947)| | | $| 2,114 |  
Patents and licensed technology| 446 | | | (249)| | | 197 | | | 446 | | |
(221)| | | 225 |  
Total intangible assets| $| 3,539 | | | $| (1,863)| | | $| 1,676 | | | $|
3,507 | | | $| (1,168)| | | $| 2,339 |  
  
(1) During the first quarter of fiscal year 2023, we commenced amortization of
a $630 million in-process research and development intangible asset related to
our acquisition of Mellanox.

71

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

Amortization expense associated with intangible assets for fiscal years 2023,
2022, and 2021 was $699 million, $563 million, and $612 million, respectively.
Future amortization expense related to the net carrying amount of intangible
assets as of January 29, 2023 is estimated to be $602 million in fiscal year
2024, $541 million in fiscal year 2025, $247 million in fiscal year 2026, $142
million in fiscal year 2027, $35 million in fiscal year 2028, and $109 million
in fiscal year 2029 and thereafter.

Note 8 - Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities

Our cash equivalents and marketable securities related to debt securities are
classified as "available-for-sale" debt securities.

The following is a summary of cash equivalents and marketable securities as of
January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29, 2023  
| Amortized  
Cost| | Unrealized  
Gain| | Unrealized  
Loss| | Estimated  
Fair Value| | Reported as  
| | | | | Cash Equivalents| | Marketable Securities  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| (In millions)  
Corporate debt securities| $| 4,809 | | | $| -- | | | $| (12)| | | $| 4,797 |
| | $| 1,087 | | | $| 3,710 |  
Debt securities issued by the United States Treasury| 4,185 | | | 1 | | |
(44)| | | 4,142 | | | -- | | | 4,142 |  
Debt securities issued by United States government agencies| 1,836 | | | -- |
| | (2)| | | 1,834 | | | 50 | | | 1,784 |  
Money market funds| 1,777 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 1,777 | | | 1,777 | | | -- |  
Certificates of deposit| 365 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 365 | | | 134 | | | 231 |  
Foreign government bonds| 140 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 140 | | | 100 | | | 40 |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Total| $| 13,112 | | | $| 1 | | | $| (58)| | | $| 13,055 | | | $| 3,148 | | |
$| 9,907 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 30, 2022  
| Amortized  
Cost| | Unrealized  
Gain| | Unrealized  
Loss| | Estimated  
Fair Value| | Reported as  
| | | | | Cash Equivalents| | Marketable Securities  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| (In millions)  
Corporate debt securities| $| 9,977 | | | $| -- | | | $| (3)| | | $| 9,974 | |
| $| 1,102 | | | $| 8,872 |  
Debt securities issued by the United States Treasury| 7,314 | | | -- | | |
(14)| | | 7,300 | | | -- | | | 7,300 |  
Debt securities issued by United States government agencies| 1,612 | | | -- |
| | -- | | | 1,612 | | | 256 | | | 1,356 |  
Certificates of deposit| 1,561 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 1,561 | | | 21 | | |
1,540 |  
Money market funds| 316 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 316 | | | 316 | | | -- |  
Foreign government bonds| 150 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 150 | | | -- | | | 150 |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Total| $| 20,930 | | | $| -- | | | $| (17)| | | $| 20,913 | | | $| 1,695 | | |
$| 19,218 |  
  
72

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

The following tables provide the breakdown of unrealized losses as of January
29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, aggregated by investment category and length of
time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29, 2023  
| Less than 12 Months| | 12 Months or Greater| | Total  
| Estimated Fair Value| | Gross Unrealized Loss| | Estimated Fair Value| |
Gross Unrealized Loss| | Estimated Fair Value| | Gross Unrealized Loss  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| (In millions)  
Debt securities issued by the United States Treasury| $| 2,444 | | | $| (21)|
| | $| 1,172 | | | $| (23)| | | $| 3,616 | | | $| (44)|  
Corporate debt securities| 1,188 | | | (7)| | | 696 | | | (5)| | | 1,884 | | |
(12)|  
Debt securities issued by United States government agencies| 1,307 | | | (2)|
| | -- | | | -- | | | 1,307 | | | (2)|  
Total| $| 4,939 | | | $| (30)| | | $| 1,868 | | | $| (28)| | | $| 6,807 | | |
$| (58)|  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 30, 2022  
| Less than 12 Months| | 12 Months or Greater| | Total  
| Estimated Fair Value| | Gross Unrealized Loss| | Estimated Fair Value| |
Gross Unrealized Loss| | Estimated Fair Value| | Gross Unrealized Loss  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| (In millions)  
Debt securities issued by the United States Treasury| $| 5,292 | | | $| (14)|
| | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $| 5,292 | | | $| (14)|  
Corporate debt securities| 2,445 | | | (3)| | | 19 | | | -- | | | 2,464 | | |
(3)|  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Total| $| 7,737 | | | $| (17)| | | $| 19 | | | $| -- | | | $| 7,756 | | | $|
(17)|  
  
The gross unrealized losses are related to fixed income securities, driven
primarily by changes in interest rates. Net realized gains and losses were not
significant for all periods presented.

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of cash equivalents and marketable
securities as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022 are shown below by
contractual maturity.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29, 2023| | January 30, 2022  
| Amortized  
Cost| | Estimated  
Fair Value| | Amortized  
Cost| | Estimated  
Fair Value  
| | | | | | |  
| (In millions)  
Less than one year| $| 9,738 | | | $| 9,708 | | | $| 16,346 | | | $| 16,343 |  
Due in 1 - 5 years| 3,374 | | | 3,347 | | | 4,584 | | | 4,570 |  
| | | | | | |  
Total| $| 13,112 | | | $| 13,055 | | | $| 20,930 | | | $| 20,913 |  
  
Note 9 - Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities

The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using
quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar
assets from active markets. We review fair value hierarchy classification on a
quarterly basis.

73

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Fair Value at  
| Pricing Category| | January 29, 2023| | January 30, 2022  
| | | | |  
| | | (In millions)  
Assets| | | | |  
Cash equivalents and marketable securities:| | | | |  
Money market funds| Level 1| | $| 1,777 | | | $| 316 |  
Corporate debt securities| Level 2| | $| 4,797 | | | $| 9,974 |  
Debt securities issued by the United States Treasury| Level 2| | $| 4,142 | |
| $| 7,300 |  
Debt securities issued by United States government agencies| Level 2| | $|
1,834 | | | $| 1,612 |  
Certificates of deposit| Level 2| | $| 365 | | | $| 1,561 |  
Foreign government bonds| Level 2| | $| 140 | | | $| 150 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Other assets (Investment in non-affiliated entities):| | | | |  
Publicly-held equity securities (1)| Level 1| | $| 11 | | | $| 58 |  
Privately-held equity securities| Level 3| | $| 288 | | | $| 208 |  
| | | | |  
Liabilities (2)| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
  
0.309% Notes Due 2023

| Level 2| | $| 1,230 | | | $| 1,236 |  
  
0.584% Notes Due 2024

| Level 2| | $| 1,185 | | | $| 1,224 |  
  
3.20% Notes Due 2026

| Level 2| | $| 966 | | | $| 1,055 |  
  
1.55% Notes Due 2028

| Level 2| | $| 1,099 | | | $| 1,200 |  
  
2.85% Notes Due 2030

| Level 2| | $| 1,364 | | | $| 1,542 |  
  
2.00% Notes Due 2031

| Level 2| | $| 1,044 | | | $| 1,200 |  
  
3.50% Notes Due 2040

| Level 2| | $| 870 | | | $| 1,066 |  
  
3.50% Notes Due 2050

| Level 2| | $| 1,637 | | | $| 2,147 |  
  
3.70% Notes Due 2060

| Level 2| | $| 410 | | | $| 551 |  
  
(1) Unrealized losses of $61 million from investments in publicly-traded
equity securities were recorded in other income (expense), net, in fiscal year
2023. Unrealized gains of $48 million from an investment in a publicly-traded
equity security were recorded in other income (expense), net, in fiscal year
2022.

(2) These liabilities are carried on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at their
original issuance value, net of unamortized debt discount and issuance costs.

Note 10 - Balance Sheet Components

Certain balance sheet components are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
| | |  
| (In millions)  
  
Inventories (1):

| | |  
Raw materials| $| 2,430 | | | $| 791 |  
Work in-process| 466 | | | 692 |  
Finished goods| 2,263 | | | 1,122 |  
Total inventories| $| 5,159 | | | $| 2,605 |  
  
(1) In fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we recorded an inventory reserve expense of
approximately $1.04 billion and $173 million in cost of revenue, respectively.

74

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | Estimated  
Useful Life  
| | | | |  
| (In millions)| | (In years)  
Property and Equipment:| | | | |  
Land| $| 218 | | | $| 218 | | | (A)  
Buildings, leasehold improvements, and furniture| 1,598 | | | 874 | | | (B)  
Equipment, compute hardware, and software| 4,303 | | | 2,852 | | |

3-5  
  
Construction in process| 382 | | | 737 | | | (C)  
Total property and equipment, gross| 6,501 | | | 4,681 | | |  
Accumulated depreciation and amortization| (2,694)| | | (1,903)| | |  
Total property and equipment, net| $| 3,807 | | | $| 2,778 | | |  
  
(A)Land is a non-depreciable asset.

(B)The estimated useful lives of our buildings are up to thirty years.
Leasehold improvements and finance leases are amortized based on the lesser of
either the asset's estimated useful life or the expected lease term.

(C)Construction in process represents assets that are not available for their
intended use as of the balance sheet date.

Depreciation expense for fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021 was $844 million,
$611 million, and $486 million, respectively.

Accumulated amortization of leasehold improvements and finance leases was $327
million and $265 million as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022,
respectively.

Property, equipment and intangible assets acquired by assuming related
liabilities during fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021 were $374 million, $258
million, and $157 million, respectively.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
| | |  
Other assets:| (In millions)  
Prepaid supply agreements| $| 2,989 | | | $| 1,747 |  
Prepaid royalties| 387 | | | 409 |  
Investment in non-affiliated entities| 299 | | | 266 |  
| | |  
Advanced consideration for acquisition (1)| -- | | | 1,353 |  
Other| 145 | | | 66 |  
Total other assets| $| 3,820 | | | $| 3,841 |  
  
(1)Refer to Note 2 - Business Combination for further details on the Arm
acquisition.

75

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
| | |  
| (In millions)  
Accrued and Other Current Liabilities:| | |  
Customer program accruals| $| 1,196 | | | $| 1,000 |  
Excess inventory purchase obligations (1)| 954 | | | 196 |  
Accrued payroll and related expenses| 530 | | | 409 |  
Taxes payable| 467 | | | 132 |  
Deferred revenue (2)| 354 | | | 300 |  
Operating leases| 176 | | | 144 |  
| | |  
| | |  
| | |  
| | |  
| | |  
| | |  
| | |  
| | |  
| | |  
| | |  
Other| 443 | | | 371 |  
Total accrued and other current liabilities| $| 4,120 | | | $| 2,552 |  
  
(1)In fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we recorded an expense of approximately
$1.13 billion and $181 million, respectively, in cost of revenue for inventory
purchase obligations in excess of our current demand projections, and
cancellation and underutilization penalties.

(2)Deferred revenue primarily includes customer advances and deferrals related
to license and development arrangements, support for hardware and software,
and cloud services.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
| | |  
| (In millions)  
Other Long-Term Liabilities:| | |  
Income tax payable (1)| $| 1,204 | | | $| 980 |  
Deferred income tax| 247 | | | 245 |  
Deferred revenue (2)| 218 | | | 202 |  
Licenses payable| 181 | | | 77 |  
| | |  
| | |  
Other| 63 | | | 49 |  
Total other long-term liabilities| $| 1,913 | | | $| 1,553 |  
  
(1)Income tax payable is comprised of the long-term portion of the one-time
transition tax payable, unrecognized tax benefits, and related interest and
penalties.

(2)Deferred revenue primarily includes deferrals related to support for
hardware and software.

Deferred Revenue

The following table shows the changes in deferred revenue during fiscal years
2023 and 2022.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
| | |  
| (In millions)  
Balance at beginning of period| $| 502 | | | $| 451 |  
Deferred revenue added during the period| 830 | | | 821 |  
Addition due to business combinations| -- | | | 8 |  
Revenue recognized during the period| (760)| | | (778)|  
Balance at end of period| $| 572 | | | $| 502 |  
  
Revenue related to remaining performance obligations represents the contracted
license and development arrangements and support for hardware and software.
This includes deferred revenue currently recorded and amounts that will be
invoiced in future periods. As of January 29, 2023, $652 million of revenue
related to

76

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

performance obligations had not been recognized, of which we expect to
recognize approximately 47% over the next twelve months and the remainder
thereafter. This excludes revenue related to performance obligations for
contracts with a length of one year or less.

Note 11 - Derivative Financial Instruments

We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of
foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. These
contracts are designated as cash flow hedges for hedge accounting treatment.
Gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income or loss and reclassified to operating expense when the
related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness
should occur. The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of
January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022.

We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of
foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are
denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. These forward contracts were
not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair
value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense and offsets
the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary
assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense.

The table below presents the notional value of our foreign currency forward
contracts outstanding as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
| | |  
| (In millions)  
Designated as cash flow hedges| $| 1,128 | | | $| 1,023 |  
Non-designated hedges| $| 366 | | | $| 408 |  
  
As of January 29, 2023, all designated foreign currency forward contracts
mature within eighteen months. The expected realized gains and losses deferred
into accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to foreign currency
forward contracts within the next twelve months was not significant.

During fiscal years 2023 and 2022, the impact of derivative financial
instruments designated for hedge accounting treatment on other comprehensive
income or loss was not significant and all such instruments were determined to
be highly effective.

Note 12 - Debt

Long-Term Debt

In June 2021, March 2020, and September 2016, we issued a total of $5.00
billion, $5.00 billion, and $2.00 billion aggregate principal of senior notes,
respectively. The net proceeds from these offerings were $4.98 billion, $4.97
billion, and $1.98 billion, respectively, after deducting debt discount and
issuance costs.

In fiscal year 2022, we repaid the $1.00 billion of 2.20% Notes Due 2021.

77

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

The carrying value of the Notes, the calendar year of maturity, and the
associated interest rates were as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Expected  
Remaining Term (years)| | Effective  
Interest Rate| | January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
| | | | | | | |  
| |  | |  | | (In millions)  
| | | | | | | |  
  
0.309% Notes Due 2023

| | 0.4| | 0.41%| | $| 1,250 | | | $| 1,250 |  
  
0.584% Notes Due 2024

| | 1.4| | 0.66%| | 1,250 | | | 1,250 |  
  
3.20% Notes Due 2026

| | 3.6| | 3.31%| | 1,000 | | | 1,000 |  
  
1.55% Notes Due 2028

| | 5.4| | 1.64%| | 1,250 | | | 1,250 |  
  
2.85% Notes Due 2030

| | 7.2| | 2.93%| | 1,500 | | | 1,500 |  
  
2.00% Notes Due 2031

| | 8.4| | 2.09%| | 1,250 | | | 1,250 |  
  
3.50% Notes Due 2040

| | 17.2| | 3.54%| | 1,000 | | | 1,000 |  
  
3.50% Notes Due 2050

| | 27.2| | 3.54%| | 2,000 | | | 2,000 |  
  
3.70% Notes Due 2060

| | 37.2| | 3.73%| | 500 | | | 500 |  
Unamortized debt discount and issuance costs| |  | |  | | (47)| | | (54)|  
Net carrying amount| |  | |  | | 10,953 | | | 10,946 |  
Less short-term portion| | | | | | (1,250)| | | -- |  
Total long-term portion| | | | | | $| 9,703 | | | $| 10,946 |  
  
All our notes are unsecured senior obligations. All existing and future
liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior to the notes. Our
notes pay interest semi-annually. We may redeem each of our notes prior to
maturity, subject to a make-whole premium as defined in the applicable form of
note.

As of January 29, 2023, we were in compliance with the required covenants,
which are non-financial in nature, under the Notes.

Commercial Paper

We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate
purposes. As of January 29, 2023, we had not issued any commercial paper.

Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies

Purchase Obligations

Our purchase obligations reflect our commitments to purchase components used
to manufacture our products, including long-term supply agreements, certain
software and technology licenses, other goods and services and long-lived
assets.

We have entered into several long-term supply agreements, under which we have
made advance payments and have $810 million remaining unpaid. As of January
29, 2023, we had outstanding inventory purchase and long-term supply
obligations totaling $4.92 billion, inclusive of the $810 million. Under our
manufacturing relationships with our foundry suppliers, subcontractors and
contract manufacturers, cancellation of outstanding purchase commitments is
generally allowed but may result in the payment of costs incurred through the
date of cancellation. Other non-inventory purchase obligations of $3.14
billion include $2.23 billion of multi-year cloud service agreements.

  

78

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

Total future purchase commitments as of January 29, 2023, are as follows:

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Commitments  
| (In millions)  
Fiscal Year:|  
2024| $| 5,230 |  
2025| 983 |  
2026| 679 |  
2027| 622 |  
2028| 296 |  
2029 and thereafter| 253 |  
Total| $| 8,063 |  
  
Accrual for Product Warranty Liabilities

The estimated amount of product warranty liabilities was $82 million and $46
million as of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, respectively. The
estimated product returns and estimated product warranty activity consisted of
the following:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |

Year Ended  
  
| | January 29,| | January 30,| | January 31,  
| | 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
| (In millions)  
  
Balance at beginning of period

| | $| 46 | | | $| 22 | | | $| 15 |  
  
Additions

| | 145 | | | 40| | 28  
  
Utilization

| | (109)| | | (16)| | | (21)|  
  
Balance at end of period

| | $| 82 | | | $| 46 | | | $| 22 |  
  
In the second quarter of fiscal year 2023, we recorded $122 million in product
warranty liabilities primarily related to a defect identified in a third-party
component embedded in certain Data Center products. In the third quarter of
fiscal year 2023, we recognized a warranty-related benefit of approximately
$70 million in cost of revenue due to favorable product recovery.

In connection with certain agreements that we have entered in the past, we
have provided indemnities for matters such as tax, product, and employee
liabilities. We have included intellectual property indemnification provisions
in our technology-related agreements with third parties. Maximum potential
future payments cannot be estimated because many of these agreements do not
have a maximum stated liability. We have not recorded any liability in our
Consolidated Financial Statements for such indemnifications.

Litigation

Securities Class Action and Derivative Lawsuits

The plaintiffs in the putative securities class action lawsuit, captioned
4:18-cv-07669-HSG, initially filed on December 21, 2018 in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California, and titled In Re
NVIDIA Corporation Securities Litigation, filed an amended complaint on May
13, 2020. The amended complaint asserted that NVIDIA and certain NVIDIA
executives violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, or the Exchange Act, and SEC Rule 10b-5, by making materially false
or misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of
cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand between May 10, 2017 and November 14,
2018. Plaintiffs also alleged that the NVIDIA executives who they named as
defendants violated Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. Plaintiffs sought class
certification, an award of unspecified compensatory damages, an award of
reasonable costs and expenses,

79

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

including attorneys' fees and expert fees, and further relief as the Court may
deem just and proper. On March 2, 2021, the district court granted NVIDIA's
motion to dismiss the complaint without leave to amend, entered judgment in
favor of NVIDIA and closed the case. On March 30, 2021, plaintiffs filed an
appeal from judgment in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, case number 21-15604. Oral argument on the appeal was held on May 10,
2022.

The putative derivative lawsuit pending in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of California, captioned 4:19-cv-00341-HSG,
initially filed January 18, 2019 and titled In re NVIDIA Corporation
Consolidated Derivative Litigation, was stayed pending resolution of the
plaintiffs' appeal in the In Re NVIDIA Corporation Securities Litigation
action. On February 22, 2022, the court administratively closed the case, but
stated that it would reopen the case once the appeal in the In Re NVIDIA
Corporation Securities Litigation action is resolved. The lawsuit asserts
claims, purportedly on behalf of us, against certain officers and directors of
the Company for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, waste of
corporate assets, and violations of Sections 14(a), 10(b), and 20(a) of the
Exchange Act based on the dissemination of allegedly false and misleading
statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency
mining on GPU demand. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and other
relief, including reforms and improvements to NVIDIA's corporate governance
and internal procedures.

The putative derivative actions initially filed September 24, 2019 and pending
in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, Lipchitz v.
Huang, et al. (Case No. 1:19-cv-01795-UNA) and Nelson v. Huang, et. al. (Case
No. 1:19-cv-01798- UNA), remain stayed pending resolution of the plaintiffs'
appeal in the In Re NVIDIA Corporation Securities Litigation action. The
lawsuits assert claims, purportedly on behalf of us, against certain officers
and directors of the Company for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment,
insider trading, misappropriation of information, corporate waste and
violations of Sections 14(a), 10(b), and 20(a) of the Exchange Act based on
the dissemination of allegedly false, and misleading statements related to
channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand. The
plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief, including disgorgement
of profits from the sale of NVIDIA stock and unspecified corporate governance
measures.

Accounting for Loss Contingencies

As of January 29, 2023, we have not recorded any accrual for contingent
liabilities associated with the legal proceedings described above based on our
belief that liabilities, while possible, are not probable. Further, except as
specifically described above, any possible loss or range of loss in these
matters cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. We are engaged in legal
actions not described above arising in the ordinary course of business and,
while there can be no assurance of favorable outcomes, we believe that the
ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on
our operating results, liquidity or financial position.

80

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

Note 14 - Income Taxes

The income tax expense (benefit) applicable to income before income taxes
consists of the following:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | |  
| (In millions)  
Current income taxes:|  | |  | |  
Federal| $| 1,703 | | | $| 482 | | | $| 197 |  
State| 46 | | | 42 | | | 1 |  
Foreign| 228 | | | 71 | | | 161 |  
Total current| 1,977 | | | 595 | | | 359 |  
Deferred taxes:|  | |  | |  
Federal| (2,165)| | | (420)| | | (246)|  
| | | | |  
Foreign| 1 | | | 14 | | | (36)|  
Total deferred| (2,164)| | | (406)| | | (282)|  
| | | | |  
Income tax expense (benefit)| $| (187)| | | $| 189 | | | $| 77 |  
  
Income before income tax consists of the following:| | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | |  
| (In millions)  
U.S.| $| 3,477 | | | $| 8,446 | | | $| 1,437 |  
Foreign| 704 | | | 1,495 | | | 2,972 |  
Income before income tax| $| 4,181 | | | $| 9,941 | | | $| 4,409 |  
  
The income tax expense (benefit) differs from the amount computed by applying
the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% to income before income taxes as
follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| (In millions, except percentages)  
Tax expense computed at federal statutory rate| $| 878 | | | 21.0 | %| | $|
2,088 | | | 21.0 | %| | $| 926 | | | 21.0 | %  
Expense (benefit) resulting from:| | | | | | | | | | |  
Acquisition termination cost| 261 | | | 6.2 | %| | -- | | | -- | %| | -- | | |
-- | %  
State income taxes, net of federal tax effect| 50 | | | 1.2 | %| | 42 | | |
0.4 | %| | 10 | | | 0.2 | %  
Foreign-derived intangible income| (739)| | | (17.7)| %| | (520)| | | (5.2)|
%| | -- | | | -- | %  
Stock-based compensation| (309)| | | (7.4)| %| | (337)| | | (3.4)| %| | (136)|
| | (3.1)| %  
U.S. federal research and development tax credit| (278)| | | (6.6)| %| |
(289)| | | (2.9)| %| | (173)| | | (3.9)| %  
Foreign tax rate differential| (83)| | | (2.0)| %| | (497)| | | (5.0)| %| |
(561)| | | (12.7)| %  
IP domestication| -- | | | -- | %| | (244)| | | (2.5)| %| | -- | | | -- | %  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Other| 33 | | | 0.8 | %| | (54)| | | (0.5)| %| | 11 | | | 0.2 | %  
Income tax expense (benefit)| $| (187)| | | (4.5)| %| | $| 189 | | | 1.9 | %|
| $| 77 | | | 1.7 | %  
  
81

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

The tax effect of temporary differences that gives rise to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented below:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
| | |  
| (In millions)  
Deferred tax assets:|  
Capitalized research and development expenditure (1)| $| 1,859 | | | $| 508 |  
Research and other tax credit carryforwards| 951 | | | 798 |  
GILTI deferred tax assets| 800 | | | 378 |  
Accruals and reserves, not currently deductible for tax purposes| 686 | | |
258 |  
Net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards| 409 | | | 118 |  
Operating lease liabilities| 193 | | | 125 |  
Stock-based compensation| 99 | | | 86 |  
Property, equipment and intangible assets| 66 | | | 22 |  
Other deferred tax assets| 91 | | | 22 |  
Gross deferred tax assets| 5,154 | | | 2,315 |  
Less valuation allowance| (1,484)| | | (907)|  
Total deferred tax assets| 3,670 | | | 1,408 |  
Deferred tax liabilities:|  | |  
Unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries| (228)| | | (150)|  
Operating lease assets| (179)| | | (113)|  
Acquired intangibles| (115)| | | (169)|  
Gross deferred tax liabilities| (522)| | | (432)|  
Net deferred tax asset (2)| $| 3,148 | | | $| 976 |  
  
(1) Capitalized research and development deferred tax assets were previously
included in Property, equipment and intangible assets.

(2) Net deferred tax asset includes long-term deferred tax assets of $3.40
billion and $1.22 billion and long-term deferred tax liabilities of $247
million and $245 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. Long-
term deferred tax liabilities are included in other long-term liabilities on
our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

As of January 29, 2023, we intend to indefinitely reinvest approximately $1.05
billion and $245 million of cumulative undistributed earnings held by certain
subsidiaries in Israel and the United Kingdom, respectively. We have not
provided the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary
differences related to these investments as the determination of such amount
is not practicable.

As of January 29, 2023 and January 30, 2022, we had a valuation allowance of
$1.48 billion and $907 million, respectively, related to capital loss
carryforwards, state, and certain other deferred tax assets that management
determined not likely to be realized due, in part, to jurisdictional
projections of future taxable income, including capital gains. To the extent
realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would
recognize such deferred tax assets as income tax benefits during the period.

As of January 29, 2023, we had U.S. federal, state and foreign net operating
loss carryforwards of $363 million, $329 million and $329 million,
respectively. The federal and state carryforwards will begin to expire in
fiscal years 2026 and 2024, respectively. The foreign net operating loss
carryforwards of $329 million may be carried forward indefinitely. As of
January 29, 2023, we had federal research tax credit carryforwards of $26
million, before the impact of uncertain tax positions, that will begin to
expire in fiscal year 2024. We have state research tax credit carryforwards of
$1.49 billion, before the impact of uncertain tax positions. $1.41 billion is
attributable to the State of California and may be carried over indefinitely
and $83 million is attributable to various other states and will begin to
expire in fiscal year 2024. As of January 29, 2023, we had federal capital
loss carryforwards of $1.38 billion that will begin to expire in fiscal year
2024.

Our tax attributes remain subject to audit and may be adjusted for changes or
modification in tax laws, other authoritative interpretations thereof, or
other facts and circumstances. Utilization of tax attributes may also

82

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

be subject to limitations due to ownership changes and other limitations
provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state and foreign tax
provisions. If any such limitations apply, the tax attributes may expire or be
denied before utilization.

A reconciliation of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | |  
| (In millions)  
Balance at beginning of period| $| 1,013 | | | $| 776 | | | $| 583 |  
Increases in tax positions for current year| 268 | | | 246 | | | 158 |  
Increases in tax positions for prior years| 1 | | | 14 | | | 60 |  
Decreases in tax positions for prior years| (15)| | | (4)| | | (11)|  
Settlements| (9)| | | (8)| | | (5)|  
Lapse in statute of limitations| (20)| | | (11)| | | (9)|  
Balance at end of period| $| 1,238 | | | $| 1,013 | | | $| 776 |  
  
Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits as of January 29, 2023
are $770 million of tax benefits that would affect our effective tax rate if
recognized.

We classify an unrecognized tax benefit as a current liability, or amount
refundable, to the extent that we anticipate payment or receipt of cash for
income taxes within one year. The amount is classified as a long-term
liability, or reduction of long-term amount refundable, if we anticipate
payment or receipt of cash for income taxes during a period beyond a year.

We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a
component of income tax expense. We recognized net interest and penalties
related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense line of our
consolidated statements of income of $33 million, $14 million, and $7 million
during fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As of January 29, 2023
and January 30, 2022, we have accrued $95 million and $59 million,
respectively, for the payment of interest and penalties related to
unrecognized tax benefits, which is not included as a component of our gross
unrecognized tax benefits.

While we believe that we have adequately provided for all tax positions,
amounts asserted by tax authorities could be greater or less than our accrued
position. Accordingly, our provisions on federal, state and foreign tax-
related matters to be recorded in the future may change as revised estimates
are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. As of
January 29, 2023, we have not identified any positions for which it is
reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits will
significantly increase or decrease within the next twelve months.

We are subject to taxation by taxing authorities both in the United States and
other countries. As of January 29, 2023, the significant tax jurisdictions
that may be subject to examination include China, Germany, Hong Kong, India,
Israel, Taiwan, United Kingdom, and the United States for fiscal years 2005
through 2022. As of January 29, 2023, the significant tax jurisdictions for
which we are currently under examination include Germany, India, Israel, and
the United States for fiscal years 2005 through 2022.

Note 15 - Shareholders' Equity

Capital Return Program

During fiscal year 2023, we repurchased 63 million shares for $10.04 billion.
Since the inception of our share repurchase program through January 29, 2023,
we have repurchased an aggregate of 1.10 billion shares under our share
repurchase program for a total cost of $17.12 billion. As of January 29, 2023,
we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase an
additional $7.23 billion of shares through December 2023.

83

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

During fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021, we paid $398 million, $399 million,
and $395 million in cash dividends to our shareholders, respectively. Our cash
dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that program
are subject to our Board of Directors' continuing determination that the
dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best
interests of our shareholders.

In fiscal year 2022, we retired our existing 349 million treasury shares.
These shares assumed the status of authorized and unissued shares upon
retirement. The excess of repurchase price over par value was allocated
between additional paid-in capital and retained earnings, resulting in a
reduction in additional paid-in capital by $20 million and retained earnings
by $12.0 billion. Any future repurchased shares will assume the status of
authorized and unissued shares.

Note 16 - Employee Retirement Plans

We provide tax-qualified defined contribution plans to eligible employees in
the U.S. and certain other countries. Our contribution expense for fiscal
years 2023, 2022, and 2021 was $227 million, $168 million, and $120 million,
respectively.

Note 17 - Segment Information

Our Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating
decision maker, or CODM, reviews financial information presented on an
operating segment basis for purposes of making decisions and assessing
financial performance.

The Compute & Networking segment includes our Data Center accelerated
computing platform; networking; automotive AI Cockpit, autonomous driving
development agreements, and autonomous vehicle solutions; electric vehicle
computing platforms; Jetson for robotics and other embedded platforms; and
NVIDIA AI Enterprise and other software; and CMP.

The Graphics segment includes GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW
game streaming service and related infrastructure, and solutions for gaming
platforms; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; vGPU
software for cloud-based visual and virtual computing; automotive platforms
for infotainment systems; and Omniverse Enterprise software for building and
operating metaverse and 3D internet applications.

Operating results by segment include costs or expenses that are directly
attributable to each segment, and costs or expenses that are leveraged across
our unified architecture and therefore allocated between our two segments.

The "All Other" category includes the expenses that our CODM does not assign
to either Compute & Networking or Graphics for purposes of making operating
decisions or assessing financial performance. The expenses include stock-based
compensation expense, acquisition-related and other costs, corporate
infrastructure and support costs, restructuring costs, acquisition termination
cost, IP-related and legal settlement costs, contributions, and other non-
recurring charges and benefits that our CODM deems to be enterprise in nature.

Our CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on a
reportable segment basis. Depreciation and amortization expense directly
attributable to each reportable segment is included in operating results for
each segment. However, the CODM does not evaluate depreciation and
amortization expense by operating segment and, therefore, it is not separately
presented. There is no intersegment revenue. The accounting policies for
segment reporting are the same as for our consolidated financial statements.
The table below presents details of our reportable segments and the "All
Other" category.

84

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Compute & Networking| | Graphics| | All Other| | Consolidated  
| | | | | | |  
| (In millions)  
  
Year Ended January 29, 2023:

| | |  | |  | |  
Revenue| $| 15,068 | | | $| 11,906 | | | $| -- | | | $| 26,974 |  
| | | | | | |  
Operating income (loss)| $| 5,083 | | | $| 4,552 | | | $| (5,411)| | | $|
4,224 |  
| | | | | | |  
  
Year Ended January 30, 2022:

| | |  | |  | |  
Revenue| $| 11,046 | | | $| 15,868 | | | $| -- | | | $| 26,914 |  
| | | | | | |  
Operating income (loss)| $| 4,598 | | | $| 8,492 | | | $| (3,049)| | | $|
10,041 |  
| | | | | | |  
  
Year Ended January 31, 2021:

| | |  | |  | |  
Revenue| $| 6,841 | | | $| 9,834 | | | $| -- | | | $| 16,675 |  
| | | | | | |  
Operating income (loss)| $| 2,548 | | | $| 4,612 | | | $| (2,628)| | | $|
4,532 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | |  
| (In millions)  
Reconciling items included in "All Other" category:| | | | |  
Stock-based compensation expense| $| (2,710)| | | $| (2,004)| | | $| (1,397)|  
Acquisition termination cost| (1,353)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Acquisition-related and other costs| (674)| | | (636)| | | (836)|  
Unallocated cost of revenue and operating expenses| (595)| | | (399)| | |
(357)|  
Restructuring costs and other| (54)| | | -- | | | -- |  
IP-related and legal settlement costs| (23)| | | (10)| | | (38)|  
Contributions| (2)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Total| $| (5,411)| | | $| (3,049)| | | $| (2,628)|  
  
Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the
billing location of the customer. End customer location may be different than
our customer's billing location. The following table summarizes information
pertaining to our revenue from customers based on the invoicing address by
geographic regions:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | |  
Revenue:| (In millions)  
United States| $| 8,292 | | | $| 4,349 | | | $| 3,214 |  
Taiwan| 6,986 | | | 8,544 | | | 4,531 |  
China (including Hong Kong)| 5,785 | | | 7,111 | | | 3,886 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Other countries| 5,911 | | | 6,910 | | | 5,044 |  
Total revenue| $| 26,974 | | | $| 26,914 | | | $| 16,675 |  
  
No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for fiscal years 2023,
2022 and 2021.

85

* * *

Table of Contents

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

  

Two customers accounted for 14% and 11% of our accounts receivable balance as
of January 29, 2023. Two customers each accounted for 11% of our accounts
receivable balance as of January 30, 2022.

The following table summarizes information pertaining to our revenue by each
of the specialized markets we serve:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022| | January 31,  
2021  
| | | | |  
Revenue:| (In millions)  
Data Center| $| 15,005 | | | $| 10,613 | | | $| 6,696 |  
Gaming| 9,067 | | | 12,462 | | | 7,759 |  
Professional Visualization| 1,544 | | | 2,111 | | | 1,053 |  
Automotive| 903 | | | 566 | | | 536 |  
OEM & Other| 455 | | | 1,162 | | | 631 |  
Total revenue| $| 26,974 | | | $| 26,914 | | | $| 16,675 |  
  
The following table presents summarized information for long-lived assets by
country. Long-lived assets consist of property and equipment and exclude other
assets, operating lease assets, goodwill, and intangible assets.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| January 29,  
2023| | January 30,  
2022  
| | |  
Long-lived assets:| (In millions)  
United States| $| 2,587 | | | $| 2,023 |  
Taiwan| 702 | | | 379 |  
Israel| 283 | | | 185 |  
| | |  
| | |  
| | |  
Other countries| 235 | | | 191 |  
Total long-lived assets| $| 3,807 | | | $| 2,778 |  
  
  

86

* * *

  

NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Description| | Balance at  
Beginning of Period| | Additions|  | Deductions|  | Balance at  
End of Period  
| | | | | | | |  
| | (In millions)  
  
Fiscal year 2023

| |  | |  |  |  |  |  
Allowance for doubtful accounts| | $| 4 | | | $| -- | | (1)| $| -- | | (1)| $|
4 |  
Sales return allowance| | $| 13 | | | $| 104 | | (2)| $| (91)| | (4)| $| 26 |  
Deferred tax valuation allowance| | $| 907 | | | $| 577 | | (3)| $| -- | | |
$| 1,484 |  
  
Fiscal year 2022

| |  | |  |  |  |  |  
Allowance for doubtful accounts| | $| 4 | | | $| -- | | (1)| $| -- | | (1)| $|
4 |  
Sales return allowance| | $| 17 | | | $| 19 | | (2)| $| (23)| | (4)| $| 13 |  
Deferred tax valuation allowance| | $| 728 | | | $| 179 | | (3)| $| -- | | |
$| 907 |  
  
Fiscal year 2021

| |  | |  |  |  |  |  
Allowance for doubtful accounts| | $| 2 | | | $| 2 | | (1)| $| -- | | (1)| $|
4 |  
Sales return allowance| | $| 9 | | | $| 30 | | (2)| $| (22)| | (4)| $| 17 |  
Deferred tax valuation allowance| | $| 621 | | | $| 107 | | (3)| $| -- | | |
$| 728 |  
  
(1)Additions represent either expense or acquired balances and deductions
represent write-offs.

(2)Additions represent estimated product returns charged as a reduction to
revenue or an acquired balance.

(3)Additional valuation allowance on deferred tax assets not likely to be
realized. Fiscal year 2023 includes additional valuation allowance on capital
loss carryforwards, state, and certain other deferred tax assets. Refer to
Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item
15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

(4)Represents sales returns.

87

* * *

  

EXHIBIT INDEX| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | Incorporated by Reference| |  
Exhibit No.| | Exhibit Description| | Schedule/Form| | File Number| | Exhibit|
| Filing Date  
2.1| |

[Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 10, 2019, by and among NVIDIA
Corporation, NVIDIA International Holdings Inc., Mellanox Technologies Ltd.
and Teal Barvaz
Ltd.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581019000031/ex21mergeragreement.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 2.1| | 3/11/2019  
2.2^| |

[Share Purchase Agreement, dated September 13, 2020, by and among NVIDIA,
NVIDIA Holdings, Arm, SoftBank, and Vision
Fund](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000119312520244601/d13958dex21.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 2.1| | 9/14/2020  
3.1| |

[Restated Certificate of
Incorporation](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581022000036/nvidia-
restatedcertificate.htm)

| | 10-K| | 0-23985| | 3.1| | 3/18/2022  
3.2| |

[Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of NVIDIA
Corporation](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581022000088/exhibit31-amendmenttoresta.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 3.1| | 6/6/2022  
3.3| |

[Bylaws of NVIDIA Corporation, Amended and Restated as of March 3,
2022](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001045810/000104581022000023/exhibit31amendedandrestate.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 3.1| | 3/9/2022  
4.1| | Reference is made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3| | | | | | | |  
4.2| |

[Specimen Stock
Certificate](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/0001012870-98-001089.txt)

| | S-1/A| | 333-47495| | 4.2| | 4/24/1998  
4.3| |

[Indenture, dated as of September 16, 2016, by and between the Company
and](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000119312516711700/d260668dex41.htm)[
Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as successor
to](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000119312516711700/d260668dex41.htm)[
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as
Trustee](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000119312516711700/d260668dex41.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 4.1| | 9/16/2016  
4.4| |

[Officers' Certificate, dated as of September 16,
2016](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000119312516711700/d260668dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 4.2| | 9/16/2016  
4.5| |

[Form of 2026
Note](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000119312516711700/d260668dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | Annex B-1 to Exhibit 4.2| | 9/16/2016  
4.6*| |

[Description of Securities](nvidia-202310xkdescription.htm)

| | | | | | | |  
4.7| |

[Officers' Certificate, dated as of March 31,
2020](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000119312520092939/d904626dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 4.2| | 3/31/2020  
4.8| |

[Form of 2030
Note](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000119312520092939/d904626dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | Annex A-1 to Exhibit 4.2| | 3/31/2020  
4.9| |

[Form of 2040
Note](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000119312520092939/d904626dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | Annex B-1 to Exhibit 4.2| | 3/31/2020  
4.10| |

[Form of 2050
Note](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000119312520092939/d904626dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | Annex C-1 to Exhibit 4.2| | 3/31/2020  
4.11| |

[Form of 2060
Note](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000119312520092939/d904626dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | Annex D-1 to Exhibit 4.2| | 3/31/2020  
4.12| |

[Officers' Certificate, dated as of June 16,
2021](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001045810/000119312521192149/d80739dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 4.2| | 6/16/2021  
4.13| |

[Form of 2023
Note](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001045810/000119312521192149/d80739dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | Annex A-1 to Exhibit 4.2| | 6/16/2021  
4.14| |

[Form of 2024
Note](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001045810/000119312521192149/d80739dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | Annex B-1 to Exhibit 4.2| | 6/16/2021  
4.15| |

[Form of 2028
Note](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001045810/000119312521192149/d80739dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | Annex C-1 to Exhibit 4.2| | 6/16/2021  
4.16| |

[Form of 2031
Note](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001045810/000119312521192149/d80739dex42.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | Annex D-1 to Exhibit 4.2| | 6/16/2021  
10.1| |

[Form of Indemnity Agreement between NVIDIA Corporation and each of its
directors and
officers](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581006000010/indemnityagreement.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 10.1| | 3/7/2006  
10.2+*| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan](nvidia-
eipardecember12022.htm)

| | | | | | | |  
10.3+| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Non-Employee Director Stock
Option Grant (2012 Annual Board
Retainer)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581012000027/ex104non-
employeedirectorn.htm)

| | 10-Q| | 0-23985| | 10.4| | 5/23/2012  
10.4+| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Non Statutory Stock
Option](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581012000036/ex101ar2007equityincentive.htm)

| | 10-Q| | 0-23985| | 10.1| | 8/22/2012  
10.5+| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Incentive Stock
Option](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581012000036/ex102ar2007equityincentive.htm)

| | 10-Q| | 0-23985| | 10.2| | 8/22/2012  
  
88

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
10.6+| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Non-Employee Director
Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Deferred Restricted Stock Unit
Agreement
(2016)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581015000036/nvda-2015xex1026.htm)

| | 10-K| | 0-23985| | 10.26| | 3/12/2015  
10.7+| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Non-Employee Director
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(2016)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581015000036/nvda-2015xex1027.htm)

| | 10-K| | 0-23985| | 10.27| | 3/12/2015  
10.8+| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Restricted Stock Unit Grant
Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement & Performance-Based Restricted
Stock Unit Grant Notice and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(2018)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581018000080/amendedandrestated2007equi.htm)

| | 10-Q| | 0-23985| | 10.2| | 5/22/2018  
10.9+| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Global Restricted Stock
Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(2019)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581019000023/amendedandrestated2007equi.htm)

| | 10-K| | 0-23985| | 10.19| | 2/21/2019  
10.10+| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Global Performance-Based
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit
Agreement
(2019)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581019000029/exhibit101amendedandrestat.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 10.1| | 3/11/2019  
10.11+| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Global Restricted Stock
Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(2020)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581020000065/amendedandrestated2007.htm)

| | 10-Q| | 0-23985| | 10.2| | 5/21/2020  
10.12+| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Global Restricted Stock
Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(2021)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581021000064/ex102globalrsuagreement-20.htm)

| | 10-Q| | 0-23985| | 10.2| | 5/26/2021  
10.13+| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Global Restricted Stock
Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(2022)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581022000036/nvidia-
globalrsuagreementx.htm)

| | 10-K| | 0-23985| | 10.16| | 3/18/2022  
10.14+*| |

[Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Global Restricted Stock
Unit Grant Notice and Global Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(2023)](a2007planglobalrsuagreemen.htm)

| | | | | | | |  
10.15+| |

[Amended and Restated 2012 Employee Stock Purchase
Plan](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581021000131/ar2012esppjuly2021post-
spl.htm)

| | 10-Q| | 0-23985| | 10.2| | 8/20/2021  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.16+| |

[Fiscal Year 2022 Variable Compensation
Plan](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001045810/000104581021000034/exhibit101fy2022variableco.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 10.1| | 3/19/2021  
10.17+| |

[Fiscal Year 2023 Variable Compensation
Plan](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001045810/000104581022000023/exhibit101fy2023variableco.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 10.1| | 3/9/2022  
10.18+| |

[Offer Letter between NVIDIA Corporation and Colette Kress, dated September
13,
2013](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581013000080/offerletterdatedseptember3.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 10.1| | 9/16/2013  
10.19+| |

[Offer Letter between NVIDIA Corporation and Tim Teter, dated December 16,
2016](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581017000006/timteterofferletter.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 10.1| | 1/19/2017  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.20+| |

[Offer Letter between NVIDIA Corporation and Donald Robertson, dated May 21,
2019](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581019000112/donaldrobertsonofferletter.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 10.1| | 6/17/2019  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
10.21| |

[Form of Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between NVIDIA Corporation, as
Issuer, and the Dealer party
thereto](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581017000178/exhibit101-formofdealeragr.htm)

| | 8-K| | 0-23985| | 10.1| | 12/15/2017  
21.1*| |

[List of Registrant's Subsidiaries](listofregistrantssubsidiar.htm)  
  
23.1*| |

[Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP](consentofindependentregist.htm)  
  
24.1*| |

Power of Attorney (included in signature page)  
  
31.1*| |

[Certification of Chief Executive Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934](nvda-2023xex311.htm)  
  
31.2*| |

[Certification of Chief Financial Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934](nvda-2023xex312.htm)  
  
32.1#*| |

[Certification of Chief Executive Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934](nvda-2023xex321.htm)  
  
89

* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
32.2#*| |

[Certification of Chief Financial Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934](nvda-2023xex322.htm)  
  
101.INS*| | XBRL Instance Document  
101.SCH*| | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document  
101.CAL*| | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document  
101.DEF*| | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document  
101.LAB*| | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase Document  
101.PRE*| | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document  
104| | Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page interactive data file
does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are
embedded within the Inline XBRL document  
  
* Filed herewith.

+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

# In accordance with Item 601(b)(32)(ii) of Regulation S-K and SEC Release
Nos. 33-8238 and 34-47986, Final Rule: Management's Reports on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting and Certification of Disclosure in Exchange
Act Periodic Reports, the certifications furnished in Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2
hereto are deemed to accompany this Annual Report on Form 10-K and will not be
deemed "filed" for purpose of Section 18 of the Exchange Act. Such
certifications will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any
filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that
the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.

^ Certain exhibits and schedules have been omitted in accordance with
Regulation S-K Item 601(a)(5).

Copies of above exhibits not contained herein are available to any shareholder
upon written request to:

Investor Relations: NVIDIA Corporation, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa
Clara, CA 95051

ITEM 16\. FORM 10-K SUMMARY

Not Applicable.

90

* * *

  

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 24, 2023.

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
NVIDIA Corporation  
By:| /s/ Jen-Hsun Huang  
| Jen-Hsun Huang  
| President and Chief Executive Officer  
  
  

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints Jen-Hsun Huang and Colette M. Kress, and each
or any one of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full
power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and
stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this
report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents
in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting
unto said attorneys-in-facts and agents, and each of them, full power and
authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and
necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming
all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their or his
substitutes or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.

  

91

* * *

  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Signature| Title| Date  
/s/ JEN-HSUN HUANG | President, Chief Executive Officer and Director  
(Principal Executive Officer)| February 24, 2023  
Jen-Hsun Huang|  |  
/s/ COLETTE M. KRESS | Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
(Principal Financial Officer)| February 24, 2023  
Colette M. Kress|  |  
/s/ DONALD ROBERTSON| Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer  
(Principal Accounting Officer)| February 24, 2023  
Donald Robertson| |  
/s/ ROBERT BURGESS| Director| February 24, 2023  
  
Robert Burgess

| |  
/s/ TENCH COXE | Director| February 24, 2023  
Tench Coxe |  |  
/s/ JOHN O. DABIRI| Director| February 24, 2023  
John O. Dabiri|  |  
/s/ PERSIS DRELL| Director| February 24, 2023  
Persis Drell| |  
/s/ DAWN HUDSON| Director| February 24, 2023  
  
Dawn Hudson

| |  
/s/ HARVEY C. JONES | Director| February 24, 2023  
Harvey C. Jones|  |  
/s/ MICHAEL MCCAFFERY| Director| February 24, 2023  
Michael McCaffery| |  
/s/ STEPHEN C. NEAL| Director| February 24, 2023  
Stephen C. Neal| |  
/s/ MARK L. PERRY | Director| February 24, 2023  
Mark L. Perry |  |  
/s/ A. BROOKE SEAWELL| Director| February 24, 2023  
A. Brooke Seawell | |  
/s/ AARTI SHAH| Director| February 24, 2023  
Aarti Shah| |  
/s/ MARK STEVENS| Director| February 24, 2023  
Mark Stevens |  |  
  
  

92

