00002004062022FYfalsehttp://fasb.org/us-

  

  

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
☑|

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
  
For the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023

or| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
☐| Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934  
for the transition period from to  
  
Commission file number 1-3215

  

JOHNSON & JOHNSON

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
New Jersey|  | 22-1024240  
(State of incorporation)|  | (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza  
New Brunswick, New Jersey|  | 08933  
(Address of principal executive offices)|  | (Zip Code)  
  
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza

New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933

(Address of principal executive offices)

  

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (732) 524-0400

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Title of each class| Trading Symbol| Name of each exchange on which registered  
Common Stock, Par Value $1.00| JNJ| New York Stock Exchange  
0.650% Notes Due May 2024| JNJ24C| New York Stock Exchange  
5.50% Notes Due November 2024| JNJ24BP| New York Stock Exchange  
1.150% Notes Due November 2028| JNJ28| New York Stock Exchange  
1.650% Notes Due May 2035| JNJ35| New York Stock Exchange  
  
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes þ No o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes o No þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes þ No o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes þ No o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or
emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer,"
"accelerated filer", "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth
company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Large accelerated filer | ☑| Accelerated filer| ☐  
| Non-accelerated filer | ☐| Smaller reporting company| ☐  
| Emerging growth company| ☐| |  
  
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has
elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new
or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a)
of the Exchange Act. o

  

* * *

  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and
attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting
firm that prepared or issued its audit report. Yes ☑ No o

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by
check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the
filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial
statements. o

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements
that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by
any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period
pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ No þ

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates computed
by reference to the price at which the Common Stock was last sold as of the
last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal
quarter was approximately $472 billion.

On February 10, 2023, there were 2,604,286,303 shares of Common Stock
outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Parts I and III:|

Portions of registrant's proxy statement for its 2023 annual meeting of
shareholders filed within 120 days after the close of the registrant's fiscal
year (the "Proxy Statement"), are incorporated by reference to this report on
Form 10-K (this "Report").  
  
  

  

* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item|  | Page  
| |  
  
PART I  
  
1|

Business

|

1  
  
|

General

|

1  
  
|

Segments of Business

|

1  
  
|

Geographic Areas

|

2  
  
|

Raw Materials

|

2  
  
|

Patents

|

2  
  
|

Trademarks

|

3  
  
|

Seasonality

|

3  
  
|

Competition

|

3  
  
|

Environment

|

3  
  
|

Regulation

|

3  
  
|

Employees and Human Capital Management

|

5  
  
|

Available Information

|

7  
  
1A.|

Risk Factors

|

8  
  
1B.|

Unresolved Staff Comments

|

16  
  
2|

Properties

|

16  
  
3|

Legal Proceedings

|

16  
  
4|

Mine Safety Disclosures

|

16  
  
|

Executive Officers of the Registrant

|

17  
  
PART II  
  
5|

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities

|

20  
  
6|

(Reserved)

|

20  
  
7|

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition

|

21  
  
7A.|

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

|

39  
  
8|

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

|

39  
  
9|

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

|

108  
  
9A.|

Controls and Procedures

|

108  
  
9B.|

Other Information

|

108  
  
9C.|

Disclosures Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections

|

108  
  
PART III  
  
10|

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

|

108  
  
11|

Executive Compensation

|

109  
  
12|

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters

|

109  
  
13|

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

|

109  
  
14|

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

|

109  
  
PART IV  
  
15|

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

|

110  
  
16|

Form 10-K Summary

|

110  
  
|

Signatures

|

111  
  
|

Exhibit Index

|

113  
  
  

* * *

  

  

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

  

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and Johnson & Johnson's other publicly
available documents contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Management and representatives of Johnson & Johnson and
its subsidiaries (the Company) also may from time to time make forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or
current facts and reflect management's assumptions, views, plans, objectives
and projections about the future. Forward-looking statements may be identified
by the use of words such as "plans," "expects," "will," "anticipates,"
"estimates" and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among
other things: discussions of future operations; expected operating results and
financial performance; impact of planned acquisitions and dispositions; impact
and timing of restructuring initiatives, including associated cost savings and
other benefits; the planned separation of the Company's Consumer Health
business; the Company's strategy for growth; product development activities;
regulatory approvals; market position and expenditures.

  

Because forward-looking statements are based on current beliefs, expectations
and assumptions regarding future events, they are subject to uncertainties,
risks and changes that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside
of the Company's control. Investors should realize that if underlying
assumptions prove inaccurate, or known or unknown risks or uncertainties
materialize, the Company's actual results and financial condition could vary
materially from expectations and projections expressed or implied in its
forward-looking statements. Investors are therefore cautioned not to rely on
these forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not
limited to:

  

Risks Related to Product Development, Market Success and Competition

•Challenges and uncertainties inherent in innovation and development of new
and improved products and technologies on which the Company's continued growth
and success depend, including uncertainty of clinical outcomes, additional
analysis of existing clinical data, obtaining regulatory approvals, health
plan coverage and customer access, and initial and continued commercial
success;

•Challenges to the Company's ability to obtain and protect adequate patent and
other intellectual property rights for new and existing products and
technologies in the United States and other important markets;

•The impact of patent expirations, typically followed by the introduction of
competing generic, biosimilar or other products and resulting revenue and
market share losses;

•Increasingly aggressive and frequent challenges to the Company's patents by
competitors and others seeking to launch competing generic, biosimilar or
other products and increased receptivity of courts, the United States Patent
and Trademark Office and other decision makers to such challenges, potentially
resulting in loss of market exclusivity and rapid decline in sales for the
relevant product sooner than expected;

•Competition in research and development of new and improved products,
processes and technologies, which can result in product and process
obsolescence;

•Competition to reach agreement with third parties for collaboration,
licensing, development and marketing agreements for products and technologies;

•Competition based on cost-effectiveness, product performance, technological
advances and patents attained by competitors; and

•Allegations that the Company's products infringe the patents and other
intellectual property rights of third parties, which could adversely affect
the Company's ability to sell the products in question and require the payment
of money damages and future royalties.

Risks Related to Product Liability, Litigation and Regulatory Activity

•Product efficacy or safety concerns, whether or not based on scientific
evidence, potentially resulting in product withdrawals, recalls, regulatory
action on the part of the United States Food and Drug Administration (or
international counterparts), declining sales, reputational damage, increased
litigation expense and share price impact;

•The impact, including declining sales and reputational damage, of significant
litigation or government action adverse to the Company, including product
liability claims and allegations related to pharmaceutical marketing practices
and contracting strategies;

  

* * *

  

•The impact of an adverse judgment or settlement and the adequacy of reserves
related to legal proceedings, including patent litigation, product liability,
personal injury claims, securities class actions, government investigations,
employment and other legal proceedings;

•Increased scrutiny of the healthcare industry by government agencies and
state attorneys general resulting in investigations and prosecutions, which
carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties, including, but not
limited to, debarment from government business;

•Failure to meet compliance obligations in compliance agreements with
governments or government agencies, which could result in significant
sanctions;

•Potential changes to applicable laws and regulations affecting United States
and international operations, including relating to: approval of new products;
licensing and patent rights; sales and promotion of healthcare products;
access to, and reimbursement and pricing for, healthcare products and
services; environmental protection; and sourcing of raw materials;

•Compliance with local regulations and laws that may restrict the Company's
ability to manufacture or sell its products in relevant markets, including
requirements to comply with medical device reporting regulations and other
requirements such as the European Union's Medical Devices Regulation;

•Changes in domestic and international tax laws and regulations, increasing
audit scrutiny by tax authorities around the world and exposures to additional
tax liabilities potentially in excess of existing reserves; and

•The issuance of new or revised accounting standards by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board and regulations by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

Risks Related to the Company's Strategic Initiatives, Healthcare Market Trends
and the Planned Separation of the Company's Consumer Health Business

•Pricing pressures resulting from trends toward healthcare cost containment,
including the continued consolidation among healthcare providers and other
market participants, trends toward managed care, the shift toward governments
increasingly becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses, significant
new entrants to the healthcare markets seeking to reduce costs and government
pressure on companies to voluntarily reduce costs and price increases;

•Restricted spending patterns of individual, institutional and governmental
purchasers of healthcare products and services due to economic hardship and
budgetary constraints;

•Challenges to the Company's ability to realize its strategy for growth
including through externally sourced innovations, such as development
collaborations, strategic acquisitions, licensing and marketing agreements,
and the potential heightened costs of any such external arrangements due to
competitive pressures;

•The potential that the expected strategic benefits and opportunities from any
planned or completed acquisition or divestiture by the Company may not be
realized or may take longer to realize than expected;

•The potential that the expected benefits and opportunities related to past
and ongoing restructuring actions may not be realized or may take longer to
realize than expected;

•The Company's ability to consummate the planned separation of the Company's
Consumer Health business on a timely basis or at all;

•The Company's ability to successfully separate the Company's Consumer Health
business and realize the anticipated benefits from the planned separation; and

•The New Consumer Health Company's ability to succeed as a standalone publicly
traded company.

Risks Related to Economic Conditions, Financial Markets and Operating
Internationally

•The risks associated with global operations on the Company and its customers
and suppliers, including foreign governments in countries in which the Company
operates;

•The impact of inflation and fluctuations in interest rates and currency
exchange rates and the potential effect of such fluctuations on revenues,
expenses and resulting margins;

•Potential changes in export/import and trade laws, regulations and policies
of the United States and other countries, including any increased trade
restrictions or tariffs and potential drug reimportation legislation;

•The impact on international operations from financial instability in
international economies, sovereign risk, possible imposition of governmental
controls and restrictive economic policies, and unstable international
governments and legal systems;

•The impact of global public health crises and pandemics, including the novel
coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic;

  

* * *

  

•Changes to global climate, extreme weather and natural disasters that could
affect demand for the Company's products and services, cause disruptions in
manufacturing and distribution networks, alter the availability of goods and
services within the supply chain, and affect the overall design and integrity
of the Company's products and operations; and

•The impact of armed conflicts and terrorist attacks in the United States and
other parts of the world, including social and economic disruptions and
instability of financial and other markets.

Risks Related to Supply Chain and Operations

•Difficulties and delays in manufacturing, internally, through third-party
providers or otherwise within the supply chain, that may lead to voluntary or
involuntary business interruptions or shutdowns, product shortages,
withdrawals or suspensions of products from the market, and potential
regulatory action;

•Interruptions and breaches of the Company's information technology systems or
those of the Company's vendors, which could result in reputational,
competitive, operational or other business harm as well as financial costs and
regulatory action;

•Reliance on global supply chains and production and distribution processes
that are complex and subject to increasing regulatory requirements that may
adversely affect supply, sourcing and pricing of materials used in the
Company's products; and

•The potential that the expected benefits and opportunities related to
restructuring actions contemplated for the global supply chain may not be
realized or may take longer to realize than expected, including due to any
required approvals from applicable regulatory authorities.

Investors also should carefully read the Risk Factors described in Item 1A of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of certain risks that could,
among other things, cause the Company's actual results to differ materially
from those expressed in its forward-looking statements. Investors should
understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and
should not consider the risks described above and in Item 1A to be a complete
statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. The Company does not
undertake to publicly update any forward-looking statement that may be made
from time to time, whether as a result of new information or future events or
developments.

  

  

* * *

  

PART I

Item 1.BUSINESS

General

Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) have approximately
152,700 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development,
manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the healthcare field.
Johnson & Johnson is a holding company, with operating companies conducting
business in virtually all countries of the world. The Company's primary focus
is products related to human health and well-being. Johnson & Johnson was
incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1887.

The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson is the principal management group
responsible for the strategic operations and allocation of the resources of
the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the
Company's three business segments: Consumer Health, Pharmaceutical and MedTech
(previously referred to as Medical Devices). Within the strategic parameters
provided by the Committee, senior management groups at U.S. and international
operating companies are each responsible for their own strategic plans and the
day-to-day operations of those companies. Each subsidiary within the business
segments is, with limited exceptions, managed by residents of the country
where located.

Segments of Business

The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer Health,
Pharmaceutical and MedTech. Additional information required by this item is
incorporated herein by reference to the narrative and tabular descriptions of
segments and operating results under: "Item 7. Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of this Report; and
Note 17 "Segments of Business and Geographic Areas" of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

Consumer Health

The Consumer Health segment includes a broad range of products focused on
personal healthcare used in the Skin Health/Beauty, Over-the-Counter
medicines, Baby Care, Oral Care, Women's Health and Wound Care markets. Major
brands in Skin Health/Beauty include the AVEENO; CLEAN & CLEAR; DR. CI:LABO;
NEUTROGENA and OGX product lines. Over-the-Counter (OTC) medicines include the
broad family of TYLENOL acetaminophen products; SUDAFED cold, flu and allergy
products; BENADRYL and ZYRTEC allergy products; MOTRIN IB ibuprofen products;
NICORETTE smoking cessation products outside the U.S.; ZARBEE'S products,
inspired by nature, and the PEPCID line of acid reflux products. Baby Care
includes the JOHNSON'S and AVEENO Baby line of products. Oral Care includes
the LISTERINE product line. Major brands in Women's Health outside of North
America are STAYFREE and CAREFREE sanitary pads and o.b. tampon brands. Wound
Care brands include the BAND-AID Brand Adhesive Bandages and NEOSPORIN First
Aid product lines. These products are marketed to the general public and sold
online (eCommerce) and to retail outlets and distributors throughout the
world.

In November 2021, the Company announced its intention to separate the
Company's Consumer Health business (Kenvue as the name for the planned New
Consumer Health Company), with the intention to create a new, publicly traded
company by the end of the fiscal year 2023.

  

Pharmaceutical

The Pharmaceutical segment is focused on the following therapeutic areas:
Immunology (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, inflammatory
bowel disease and psoriasis), Infectious Diseases (e.g., HIV/AIDS),
Neuroscience (e.g., mood disorders, neurodegenerative disorders and
schizophrenia), Oncology (e.g., prostate cancer, hematologic malignancies,
lung cancer and bladder cancer), Cardiovascular and Metabolism (e.g.,
thrombosis, diabetes and macular degeneration) and Pulmonary Hypertension
(e.g., Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension). Medicines in this segment are
distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers, distributors, hospitals and
healthcare professionals for prescription use. Key products in the
Pharmaceutical segment include: REMICADE (infliximab), a treatment for a
number of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases; SIMPONI (golimumab), a
subcutaneous treatment for adults with moderate to severe rheumatoid
arthritis, active psoriatic arthritis, active ankylosing spondylitis and
moderately active to severely active ulcerative colitis; SIMPONI ARIA
(golimumab), an intravenous treatment for adults with moderate to severe
rheumatoid arthritis, active psoriatic arthritis and active ankylosing
spondylitis and active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) in
people 2 years of age and older; STELARA (ustekinumab), a treatment for adults
and children with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, for adults with active
psoriatic arthritis, for adults with moderately to severely active Crohn's
disease and treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis;
TREMFYA (guselkumab), a treatment for adults with moderate to severe plaque
psoriasis and active psoriatic arthritis; EDURANT (rilpivirine), PREZISTA
(darunavir) and PREZCOBIX/REZOLSTA (darunavir/cobicistat), antiretroviral
medicines for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) in
combination with other antiretroviral products and SYMTUZA
(darunavir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide), a once-daily
single tablet regimen for the treatment of HIV; CONCERTA (methylphenidate HCl)
extended-release tablets CII, a treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder; INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION (paliperidone palmitate), for the treatment
of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder in adults; INVEGA
TRINZA/TREVICTA (paliperidone palmitate), for the treatment of schizophrenia
in patients after they have been adequately treated with INVEGA SUSTENNA for
at least four months; RISPERDAL CONSTA (risperidone long-acting injection),
for the treatment of schizophrenia and the maintenance treatment of Bipolar 1
Disorder in adults; ZYTIGA

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

1  
  
* * *

  

(abiraterone acetate), a treatment for patients with prostate cancer; ERLEADA
(apalutamide), a next-generation androgen receptor inhibitor for the treatment
of patients with prostate cancer; IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib), a treatment for
certain B-cell malignancies, or blood cancers and chronic graft versus host
disease; DARZALEX (daratumumab), a treatment for multiple myeloma; DARZALEX
FASPRO (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj), a treatment for multiple myeloma
and light chain (AL) Amyloidosis; XARELTO (rivaroxaban), an oral anticoagulant
for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which may lead to pulmonary
embolism (PE) in patients undergoing hip or knee replacement surgery, to
reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular
atrial fibrillation, and for the treatment and reduction of risk of recurrence
of DVT and PE to reduce the risk of major cardiovascular events in patients
with coronary artery disease (CAD) and peripheral artery disease (PAD), for
the treatment and secondary prevention of thromboembolism in pediatric
patients, and for thromboprophylaxis in pediatric patients following the
Fontan procedure; INVOKANA (canagliflozin), for the treatment of adults with
type 2 diabetes; INVOKAMET/VOKANAMET (canagliflozin/metformin HCl), a
combination therapy of fixed doses of canagliflozin and metformin
hydrochloride for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes; and INVOKAMET
XR (canagliflozin/metformin hydrochloride extended-release), a once-daily,
fixed-dose combination therapy of canagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride
extended-release, for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes; OPSUMIT
(macitentan) as monotherapy or in combination, indicated for the long-term
treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH); UPTRAVI (selexipag), the
only approved oral and intravenous, selective IP receptor agonist targeting a
prostacyclin pathway in PAH. Many of these medicines were developed in
collaboration with strategic partners or are licensed from other companies and
maintain active lifecycle development programs.

MedTech

The MedTech (previously referred to as Medical Devices) segment includes a
broad portfolio of products used in the Interventional Solutions,
Orthopaedics, Surgery and Vision categories. Interventional Solutions include
Electrophysiology products (Biosense Webster) to treat cardiovascular
diseases, Neurovascular care (Cerenovus) that treats hemorrhagic and ischemic
stroke and the Heart Recovery portfolio (Abiomed) which includes technologies
to treat severe coronary artery disease requiring high-risk PCI or AMI
cardiogenic shock. The Orthopaedics portfolio (DePuy Synthes) comprises
products in support of Hips, Knees, Trauma, and Spine, Sports & Other. The
Surgery portfolios include advanced and general surgery offerings (Ethicon),
solutions that focus on Breast Aesthetics (Mentor), and Ear, Nose and Throat
(Acclarent) procedures. Johnson & Johnson Vision products include ACUVUE Brand
contact lenses and ophthalmic technologies related to cataract and laser
refractive surgery. These products are distributed to wholesalers, hospitals
and retailers, and used predominantly in the professional fields by
physicians, nurses, hospitals, eye care professionals and clinics.

  

Geographic Areas

Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) have approximately
152,700 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development,
manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the healthcare field. The
Company conducts business in virtually all countries of the world with the
primary focus on products related to human health and well-being.

The products made and sold in the international business include many of those
described above under "- Segments of Business - Consumer Health," "-
Pharmaceutical" and "- MedTech." However, the principal markets, products and
methods of distribution in the international business vary with the country
and the culture. The products sold in international business include those
developed in the U.S. and by subsidiaries abroad.

Investments and activities in some countries outside the U.S. are subject to
higher risks than comparable U.S. activities because the investment and
commercial climate may be influenced by financial instability in international
economies, restrictive economic policies and political and legal system
uncertainties.

Raw Materials

Raw materials essential to the Company's business are generally readily
available from multiple sources. Where there are exceptions, the temporary
unavailability of those raw materials would not likely have a material adverse
effect on the financial results of the Company.

Patents

The Company's subsidiaries have made a practice of obtaining patent protection
on their products and processes where possible. They own, or are licensed
under, a significant number of patents in the U.S. and other countries
relating to their products, product uses, formulations and manufacturing
processes, which in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance to
the Company in the operation of its businesses. The Company's subsidiaries
face patent challenges from third parties, including challenges seeking to
manufacture and market generic and biosimilar versions of the Company's key
pharmaceutical products prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering
those products. Significant legal proceedings and claims involving the
Company's patent and other intellectual property are described in Note 19,
"Legal Proceedings--Intellectual Property" of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

Sales of the Company's largest product, STELARA (ustekinumab), accounted for
approximately 10.2% of the Company's total revenues for fiscal 2022.
Accordingly, the patents related to this product are believed to be material
to the

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

2  
  
* * *

  

Company. Janssen Biotech, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson &
Johnson, owns patents specifically related to STELARA. The latest expiring
United States composition of matter patent expires in 2023. The latest
expiring European composition of matter patent expires in 2024.

  

Sales of the Company's second largest product, collectively DARZALEX
(daratumumab) and DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj),
accounted for approximately 8.4% of the Company's total revenues for fiscal
2022. Accordingly, the patents related to this product are believed to be
material to the Company. Genmab A/S owns two patent families related to
DARZALEX, and Janssen Biotech, Inc. has an exclusive license to those patent
families. The two patent families both expire in the United States in 2029.
The latest expiring licensed European patent expires in 2032. Janssen Biotech,
Inc. owns a separate patent portfolio related to DARZALEX FASPRO.

Trademarks

The Company's subsidiaries have made a practice of selling their products
under trademarks and of obtaining protection for these trademarks by all
available means. These trademarks are protected by registration in the U.S.
and other countries where such products are marketed. The Company considers
these trademarks in the aggregate to be of material importance in the
operation of its businesses.

Seasonality

Worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however,
spending has typically been heavier in the fourth quarter of each year than in
other quarters. This reflects increased spending decisions, principally for
advertising and research and development activity.

Competition

In all of their product lines, the Company's subsidiaries compete with
companies both locally and globally. Competition exists in all product lines
without regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved.
Competition in research, both internally and externally sourced, involving the
development and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is
particularly significant. The development of new and innovative products, as
well as protecting the underlying intellectual property of the Company's
product portfolio, is important to the Company's success in all areas of its
business. The competitive environment requires substantial investments in
continuing research. In addition, the development and maintenance of customer
demand for the Company's consumer products involve significant expenditures
for advertising and promotion.

Environment

The Company is subject to a variety of U.S. and international environmental
protection measures. The Company believes that its operations comply in all
material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The
Company's compliance with these requirements is not expected to have a
material effect upon its capital expenditures, cash flows, earnings or
competitive position.

Regulation

The Company's businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental
regulation in the countries in which operations are conducted, and the general
trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation and enforcement. The Company
is subject to costly and complex U.S. and foreign laws and governmental
regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect
the Company's financial condition and business operations. In the U.S., the
drug, device and cosmetic industries have long been subject to regulation by
various federal and state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy,
manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of
broad regulatory powers by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the U.S.
FDA) continues to result in increases in the amounts of testing and
documentation required for U.S. FDA approval of new drugs and devices and a
corresponding increase in the expense of product introduction. Similar trends
are also evident in major markets outside of the U.S. The new medical device
regulatory framework and the evolving privacy, data localization, and emerging
cyber security laws and regulations around the world are examples of such
increased regulation. Five U.S. States (California, Connecticut, Colorado,
Utah and Virginia) now have comprehensive privacy laws in place and China
introduced broad personal information protection and data security regulations
in 2022. With other jurisdictions enacting similar privacy laws, local data
protection authorities will force greater accountability on the collection,
access and use of personal data in the healthcare industry.

The regulatory agencies under whose purview the Company operates have
administrative powers that may subject it to actions such as product
withdrawals, recalls, seizure of products and other civil and criminal
sanctions. In some cases, the Company's subsidiaries may deem it advisable to
initiate product recalls regardless of whether it has been required or
directed to.

The U.S. FDA and regulatory agencies around the globe are also increasing
their enforcement activities. If the U.S. FDA were to conclude that we are not
in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our drugs or
medical

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

3  
  
* * *

  

devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA
could ban such products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded products,
order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such products, refuse to
grant pending applications for marketing authorization or require certificates
of foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health
professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of
substantial harm to the public health. The U.S. FDA may also assess civil or
criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating
restrictions on a company-wide basis, or enjoin and/or restrain certain
conduct resulting in violations of applicable law. The U.S. FDA may also
recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Any adverse
regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from
effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain
future clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification
to our business practices and operations. Equivalent enforcement mechanisms
exist in different countries in which we conduct business.

  

The costs of human healthcare have been and continue to be a subject of study,
investigation and regulation by governmental agencies and legislative bodies
around the world. In the U.S., attention has been focused by states,
regulatory agencies and Congress on prices, profits, overutilization and the
quality and costs of healthcare generally. Laws and regulations have been
enacted to require adherence to strict compliance standards and prevent fraud
and abuse in the healthcare industry. There is increased focus on interactions
and financial relationships between healthcare companies and healthcare
providers. Various transparency laws and regulations require disclosures of
payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching
hospitals and, beginning with disclosures in 2022, to certain non-physician
practitioners. Federal and foreign laws governing international business
practices require strict compliance with anti-bribery standards and certain
prohibitions with respect to payments to any foreign government official.
Payers and Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) have become a more potent force in
the market place and increased attention is being paid to drug pricing and
appropriate drug and medical device utilization.

  

Our business has been and continues to be affected by federal and state
legislation that alters the pricing, coverage, and reimbursement landscape. At
the federal level, in August 2022, President Biden signed into law the
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), which includes provisions that effectively
authorize the government to establish prices for certain high-spend single-
source drugs and biologics reimbursed by the Medicare program, starting in
2026 for Medicare Part D drugs and 2028 for Medicare Part B drugs. It is not
yet certain which products the federal government will select and subject to
government-established prices, or how the federal government will establish
prices for selected products, as the IRA specifies a ceiling price but not a
minimum price. One or more of our products could be selected and subject to
the government-established price.

  

The IRA also contains provisions that impose rebates if certain prices
increase at a rate that outpaces the rate of inflation, beginning October 1,
2022, for Medicare Part D drugs and January 1, 2023, for Medicare Part B
drugs. Separate IRA provisions redesign the Medicare Part D benefit in various
ways, including by shifting a greater portion of costs to manufacturers within
certain coverage phases and replacing the Part D coverage gap discount program
with a new manufacturer discounting program. Failure to comply with IRA
provisions may subject manufacturers to various penalties, including civil
monetary penalties. The impact of the IRA on our business and the broader
pharmaceutical industry remains uncertain, as the federal government has yet
to make various IRA implementation decisions.

  

Additionally, we expect continued scrutiny on drug pricing and government
price reporting from Congress, agencies, and other bodies at the federal and
state levels.

  

There are a number of additional bills pending in Congress and healthcare
reform proposals at the state level that would affect drug pricing, including
in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. This changing legal landscape has both
positive and negative impacts on the U.S. healthcare industry with much
remaining uncertain as to how various provisions of federal and state law, and
potential modification or repeal of these laws, will ultimately affect the
industry. The IRA and any other federal or state legislative change could
affect the pricing and market conditions for our products.

In addition, business practices in the healthcare industry have come under
increased scrutiny, particularly in the U.S., by government agencies and state
attorneys general, and resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the
risk of significant civil and criminal penalties. Of note is the increased
enforcement activity by data protection authorities in various jurisdictions,
particularly in the European Union, where significant fines have been levied
on companies for data breaches, violations of privacy requirements, and
unlawful cross-border data transfers. In the U.S., the Federal Trade
Commission has stepped up enforcement of data privacy with several significant
settlements and there have been a material increase in class-action lawsuits
linked to the collection and use of biometric data.

Further, the Company relies on global supply chains, and production and
distribution processes, that are complex, are subject to increasing regulatory
requirements, and may be faced with unexpected changes such as those resulting
from the

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

4  
  
* * *

  

COVID-19 pandemic and Brexit that may affect sourcing, supply and pricing of
materials used in the Company's products. These processes also are subject to
complex and lengthy regulatory approvals.

  

Employees and Human Capital Management

  

As of January 1, 2023, and January 2, 2022, the number of employees were
approximately:

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022 | | 2021 |  
  
Employees1

| 155,800 | | 144,300 |  
  
Full-time equivalent (FTE) positions2

| 152,700 | | 141,700 |  
  
  

1"Employee" is defined as an individual working full-time or part-time,
excluding fixed term employees, interns and co-op employees. Employee data may
not include full population from more recently acquired companies and
individuals on long-term disability are excluded. Contingent workers,
contractors and subcontractors are also excluded. Abiomed headcount has been
included in the above table.

2 FTE represents the total number of full-time equivalent positions and does
not reflect the total number of individual employees as some work part-time.

  

![jnj-20230101_g1.jpg](jnj-20230101_g1.jpg)

Strategy

The Company believes that its employees are critical to its continued success
and are an essential element of its long-term strategy. Management is
responsible for ensuring that its policies and processes reflect and reinforce
the Company's desired corporate culture, including policies and processes
related to strategy, risk management, and ethics and compliance. The Company's
human capital management strategy is built on three fundamental focus areas:

•Attracting and recruiting the best talent

•Developing and retaining talent

•Empowering and inspiring talent

  

Underpinning these focus areas are ongoing efforts to cultivate and foster a
culture built on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), innovation, health,
well-being and safety, where the Company's employees are encouraged to succeed
both professionally and personally while helping the Company achieve its
business goals.

Culture and Employee Engagement

At the Company, employees are guided by Our Credo which sets forth the
Company's responsibilities to patients, consumers, customers, healthcare
professionals, employees, communities and shareholders. Employees worldwide
must adhere to the Company's Code of Business Conduct which sets basic
requirements and serves as a foundation for the Company policies, procedures
and guidelines, all of which provide additional guidance on expected employee
behaviors in every market where it operates. The Company conducts global
surveys that offer its employees the ability to provide feedback and valuable
insight to help address potential human resources risks and identify
opportunities to improve. In 2022, 92% of global employees across 77 countries
participated in Our Credo Survey which was offered in 36 languages.

  

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

5  
  
* * *

  

Growth and Development

To continue to lead in the changing healthcare landscape, it is crucial that
the Company continue to attract and retain top talent. The Company believes
that its employees must be equipped with the right knowledge and skills and be
provided with opportunities to grow and develop in their careers. Accordingly,
professional development programs and educational resources

are available to all employees. The Company's objective is to foster a
learning culture that helps shape each person's unique career path while
creating a robust pipeline of talent to deliver on the Company's long-term
strategies. In furtherance of this objective, the Company deploys a global
approach to ensure development is for everyone, regardless of where they are
on their career journey. In 2022, 46.2% of employees in Manager and above job
categories who had movements (including upward promotions or lateral
transfers) took advantage of career opportunities by moving across functions,
country or business segment lines (excluding employees in the research and
development organizations). The Company's voluntary turnover rate was 9%.

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)

The Company is committed to workplace diversity and to cultivating, fostering,
and advancing a culture of equity and inclusion. In 2022, Johnson & Johnson
introduced the Company's evolved enterprise Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
strategy, which recognizes how DEI accelerates the Company's ability to meet
the changing needs of the communities the Company serves to deliver Our
Purpose to profoundly change the trajectory of health for humanity. The
Company's DEI vision is: Be yourself, change the world. The Company's DEI
Mission is: Make diversity, equity and inclusion how we work everyday. Our
evolved enterprise DEI Strategy is aligned to our DEI Vision and Mission and
rests on four core pillars:

  

•Accelerate our global culture of inclusion where every individual belongs

•Build a workforce that reflects the diversity of our communities

•Transform talent and business processes to achieve equitable access and
outcomes for all

•Drive innovation and growth with our business to serve diverse markets around
the world

The Company's DEI strategy is guided by internal and external insights, global
best practices and continual employee feedback which remind the Company that
while diversity changes by location, inclusion is the same everywhere.

Compensation and Benefits

As part of the Company's total rewards philosophy, the Company offers
competitive compensation and benefits to attract and retain top talent. The
Company is committed to fairness and equitable treatment in its compensation
and benefits for employees at all levels. The Company observes legal minimum
wage provisions and exceeds them where possible. The Company's total rewards
offerings include an array of programs to support its employees' well-being,
including annual performance incentive opportunities, pension and retirement
savings programs, health and welfare benefits, paid time off, leave programs,
flexible work schedules and employee assistance programs. In recognition of
the Company's commitment to help employees balance their personal and
professional responsibilities, the Company extended its paid parental leave
benefit globally from 8 to 12 weeks for all eligible employees. In the U.S.,
the benefit was effective on January 1, 2022, with retroactive coverage for
new family additions as of July 1, 2021.

Health, Wellness and Safety

The Company's investment in employee health, well-being and safety is built on
its conviction that advancing health for humanity starts with advancing the
health of its employees. With the right awareness, focus, practices and tools,
the Company ensures that all its employees around the world, as well as
temporary contractors and visitors to the Company's sites, can work safely.
The Company has continuously expanded health and well-being programs
throughout the Company and across the globe, incorporating new thinking and
technologies to keep its offerings best-in-class and to help employees achieve
their personal health goals. The programs and practices the Company advances
for total health--physical, mental, emotional and financial--ensure employee
health protection for emerging health risks. Protecting and supporting our
employees as the COVID-19 pandemic has evolved continues to be a top priority
and the Company's approach includes: ensuring the health and safety of our
employees in the workplace through robust layers of protection; enhanced
cleaning and access to cleaning supplies and personal protective equipment;
supporting employees with benefits and well-being tools. The Company continues
to address our employees needs through J&J Flex, a hybrid model that empowers
the Company's office-based employees to find the right productivity and
balance of in-person and remote work.

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

6  
  
* * *

  

  

  

Available Information

The Company's main corporate website address is www.jnj.com. All of the
Company's SEC filings are also available on the Company's website at
www.investor.jnj.com/sec.cfm, as soon as reasonably practicable after having
been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also
available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

Investors and the public should note that the Company also announces
information at www.factsaboutourprescriptionopioids.com,
www.factsabouttalc.com and www.LTLManagementInformation.com.

We use these websites to communicate with investors and the public about our
products, litigation and other matters. It is possible that the information we
post to these websites could be deemed to be material information. Therefore,
we encourage investors and others interested in the Company to review the
information posted to these websites in conjunction with www.jnj.com, the
Company's SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts.

In addition, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws,
the written charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation & Benefits
Committee, the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee, the Regulatory
Compliance & Sustainability Committee, the Science & Technology Committee and
any special committee of the Board of Directors and the Company's Principles
of Corporate Governance, Code of Business Conduct (for employees), Code of
Business Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive
Officers, and other corporate governance materials, are available at
www.investor.jnj.com/gov.cfm on the Company's website and will be provided
without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request, as provided
above. The information on www.jnj.com,
www.factsaboutourprescriptionopioids.com, www.factsabouttalc.com and
www.LTLManagementInformation.com is not, and will not be deemed, a part of
this Report or incorporated into any other filings the Company makes with the
SEC.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

7  
  
* * *

  

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS

An investment in the Company's common stock or debt securities involves risks
and uncertainties. The Company seeks to identify, manage and mitigate risks to
our business, but uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and many
are outside of the Company's control and cannot therefore be eliminated. In
addition to the other information in this report and the Company's other
filings with the SEC, investors should consider carefully the factors set
forth below. Investors should be aware that it is not possible to predict or
identify all such factors and that the following is not meant to be a complete
discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. If known or unknown risks
or uncertainties materialize, the Company's business, results of operations or
financial condition could be adversely affected, potentially in a material
way.

  

Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Operations

  

The Company's businesses operate in highly competitive product markets and
competitive pressures could adversely affect the Company's earnings.

The Company faces substantial competition in all three operating segments and
in all geographic markets. The Company's businesses compete with companies of
all sizes on the basis of cost-effectiveness, technological innovations,
intellectual property rights, product performance, real or perceived product
advantages, pricing and availability and rate of reimbursement. The Company
also competes with other market participants in securing rights to
acquisitions, collaborations and licensing agreements with third parties.
Competition for rights to product candidates and technologies may result in
significant investment and acquisition costs and onerous agreement terms for
the Company. Competitors' development of more effective or less costly
products, and/or their ability to secure patent and other intellectual
property rights and successfully market products ahead of the Company, could
negatively impact sales of the Company's existing products as well as its
ability to bring new products to market despite significant prior investment
in the related product development.

  

For the Company's Pharmaceutical businesses, loss of patent exclusivity for a
product often is followed by a substantial reduction in sales as competitors
gain regulatory approval for generic and other competing products and enter
the market. Similar competition can be triggered by the loss of exclusivity
for a biological product. For the Company's MedTech businesses, technological
innovation, product quality, reputation and customer service are especially
important to competitiveness. Development by other companies of new or
improved products, processes and technologies could threaten to make the
Company's products or technologies less desirable, less economical or
obsolete. The Company's Consumer Health businesses face intense competition
from other branded products and retailers' private-label brands. If the
Company fails to sufficiently differentiate and market its brand name consumer
products, this could adversely affect revenues and profitability of those
products.

  

Interruptions and delays in manufacturing operations could adversely affect
the Company's business, sales and reputation.

The Company's manufacture of products requires the timely delivery of
sufficient amounts of complex, high-quality components and materials. The
Company's subsidiaries operate 89 manufacturing facilities as well as sourcing
from thousands of suppliers around the world. The Company has in the past, and
may in the future, face unanticipated interruptions and delays in
manufacturing through its internal or external supply chain. Manufacturing
disruptions can occur for many reasons including regulatory action, production
quality deviations or safety issues, labor disputes, labor shortages, site-
specific incidents (such as fires), natural disasters such as hurricanes and
other severe weather events, raw material shortages, political unrest,
terrorist attacks and epidemics or pandemics. Such delays and difficulties in
manufacturing can result in product shortages, declines in sales and
reputational impact as well as significant remediation and related costs
associated with addressing the shortage.

  

The Company relies on third parties to manufacture certain of our products.
Any failure by or loss of a third-party manufacturer could result in delays
and increased costs, which may adversely affect our business.

The Company relies on third parties to manufacture certain of our products. We
depend on these third-party manufacturers to allocate to us a portion of their
manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of
acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields and to deliver those
products to us on a timely basis and at acceptable prices. However, we cannot
guarantee that these third-party manufacturers will be able to meet our near-
term or long-term manufacturing requirements, which could result in lost sales
and have an adverse effect on our business.

  

Other risks associated with our reliance on third parties to manufacture these
products include reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and
quality assurance, misappropriation of the Company's intellectual property,
limited ability to manage our inventory, possible breach of the manufacturing
agreement by the third party and the possible termination or nonrenewal of the
manufacturing agreement by the third party at a time that is costly or
inconvenient for us. Moreover, if any of our third-party manufacturers suffers
any damage to facilities, loses benefits under material agreements,
experiences power outages, encounters financial difficulties, is unable to
secure necessary raw materials from its suppliers or suffers any other
reduction in efficiency, the Company may experience significant business
disruption. In the event of any such disruption, the

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

8  
  
* * *

  

Company would need to seek and source other qualified third-party
manufacturers, likely resulting in further delays and increased costs which
could affect our business adversely.

  

Counterfeit versions of our products could harm our patients and have a
negative impact on our revenues, earnings, reputation and business.

Our industry continues to be challenged by the vulnerability of distribution
channels to illegal counterfeiting and the presence of counterfeit products in
a growing number of markets and over the Internet. Third parties may illegally
distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet
our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. To distributors and
patients, counterfeit products may be visually indistinguishable from the
authentic version. Counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and
safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured - often in
unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites - as well as the
lack of regulation of their contents.

  

The industry's failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines could
adversely impact our business and reputation by impacting patient confidence
in our authentic products, potentially resulting in lost sales, product
recalls, and an increased threat of litigation. In addition, diversion of our
products from their authorized market into other channels may result in
reduced revenues and negatively affect our profitability.

  

Global health crises, pandemics, epidemics, or other outbreaks could adversely
disrupt or impact certain aspects of the Company's business, results of
operations and financial condition.

We are subject to risks associated with global health crises, epidemics,
pandemics and other outbreaks (such incident(s), a health crisis or health
crises), including the global outbreak of coronavirus and its variants
(COVID-19). The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted, and may continue to
adversely impact, certain aspects of the Company's business, results of
operations and financial condition, including lower sales and reduced customer
demand and usage of certain of our products. The continued spread of COVID-19
or other health crises may cause the Company to modify its business practices,
and take further actions as may be required by government authorities or as
the Company determines are in the best interests of our patients, customers,
employees and business partners. While the Company has robust business
continuity plans in place across our global supply chain network to help
mitigate the impact of health crises, these efforts may not completely prevent
our business from being adversely affected and future impacts remain
uncertain.

  

While the U.S. and other countries have substantially reopened their
economies, the extent to which COVID-19, or other health crises, could impact
the Company's future operations will depend on many factors which cannot be
predicted with confidence, including the duration of an outbreak and impact of
variants. A surge in COVID-19 or other health crises could result in the
imposition of new mandates and prolonged restrictive measures implemented in
order to control the spread of disease. The global spread of COVID-19 or other
health crises could adversely impact the Company's operations, including,
among other things, our manufacturing operations, supply chain, third-party
suppliers, sales and marketing, and clinical trial operations. Any of these
factors could adversely affect the Company's business, financial results, and
global economic conditions generally.

  

We also face uncertainties related to our vaccine development programs,
including uncertainties related to the risk that our continued development
programs may not be successful, commercially viable or receive approval from
regulatory authorities; risks associated with clinical trial and real-world
data, including further analyses of its efficacy, safety and durability; the
risk that continued evolution and mutation of disease and the duration of a
particular outbreak may impede our ability to conduct trials within a
specified time frame; the risk that data are subject to differing
interpretations and assessments, including during the peer review/publication
process, in the scientific community generally, and by national immunization
technical advisory groups (NITAGs) and regulatory authorities; disruptions in
the relationships between us, our third-party suppliers, external
manufacturers, and other third parties with whom we engage; the risk that
other companies may produce superior or competitive products; the risk that
demand for any products we may develop may no longer exist; risks related to
the availability of raw materials to manufacture any such products; the risk
that we may not be able to recoup costs associated with our R&D and
manufacturing efforts and risks associated with any changes in the way we
approach or provide additional research funding for potential drug
development; the risk that we may not be able to create or scale up
manufacturing capacity on a timely basis, that we may continue to experience
manufacturing delays once a manufacturing site is activated, or have access to
logistics or supply channels commensurate with global demand for any potential
approved vaccine or product candidate, which would negatively impact our
ability to supply the estimated numbers of doses of our vaccine within the
projected time periods indicated, and other challenges and risks associated
with the pace of our vaccine development program; and pricing and access
challenges for such products, including in the U.S.

  

Risks Related to Government Regulation and Legal Proceedings

  

Global sales in the Company's Pharmaceutical and MedTech segments may be
negatively impacted by healthcare reforms and increasing pricing pressures.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

9  
  
* * *

  

Sales of the Company's Pharmaceutical and MedTech products are significantly
affected by reimbursements by third-party payers such as government healthcare
programs, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. As part of
various efforts to contain healthcare costs, these payers are putting downward
pressure on prices at which products will be reimbursed. In the U.S.,
increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare,
Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, in part due to continued
consolidation among healthcare providers, could result in further pricing
pressures. In addition, recent legislation and ongoing political scrutiny or
pricing, coverage and reimbursement could result in additional pricing
pressures. Specifically, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA) may subject
certain products to government-established pricing, potentially impose
rebates, and subject manufacturers who fail to adhere to the government's
interpretations of the law to penalties. Outside the U.S., numerous major
markets, including the EU, United Kingdom, Japan and China, have pervasive
government involvement in funding healthcare and, in that regard, directly or
indirectly impose price controls, limit access to, or reimbursement for, the
Company's products, or reduce the value of its intellectual property
protection.

  

The Company is subject to significant legal proceedings that can result in
significant expenses, fines and reputational damage.

In the ordinary course of business, Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries are
subject to numerous claims and lawsuits involving various issues such as
product liability, patent disputes and claims that their product sales,
marketing and pricing practices violate various antitrust, unfair trade
practices and/or consumer protection laws. The Company's more significant
legal proceedings are described in Note 19, "Legal Proceedings" under Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.
Litigation, in general, and securities, derivative action, class action and
multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive.
Some of these matters may include thousands of plaintiffs, may involve parties
seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary
damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. For example, the Company
is a defendant in numerous lawsuits arising out of the use of body powders
containing talc, primarily JOHNSON'S Baby Powder, and the Company's sale,
manufacturing and marketing of opioids. While the Company believes it has
substantial defenses in these matters, it is not feasible to predict the
ultimate outcome of litigation. The Company could in the future be required to
pay significant amounts as a result of settlements or judgments in these
matters, potentially in excess of accruals, including matters where the
Company could be held jointly and severally liable among other defendants. The
resolution of, or increase in accruals for, one or more of these matters in
any reporting period could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
results of operations and cash flows for that period. The Company does not
purchase third-party product liability insurance; however, the Company
utilizes a wholly owned captive insurance company subject to certain limits.

  

Product reliability, safety and effectiveness concerns can have significant
negative impacts on sales and results of operations, lead to litigation and
cause reputational damage.

Concerns about product safety, whether raised internally or by litigants,
regulators or consumer advocates, and whether or not based on scientific
evidence, can result in safety alerts, product recalls, governmental
investigations, regulatory action on the part of the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (or its counterpart in other countries), private claims and
lawsuits, payment of fines and settlements, declining sales and reputational
damage. These circumstances can also result in damage to brand image, brand
equity and consumer trust in the Company's products. Product recalls have in
the past, and could in the future, prompt government investigations and
inspections, the shutdown of manufacturing facilities, continued product
shortages and related sales declines, significant remediation costs,
reputational damage, possible civil penalties and criminal prosecution.

  

The Company faces significant regulatory scrutiny, which imposes significant
compliance costs and exposes the Company to government investigations, legal
actions and penalties.

Like other companies in the healthcare industry, the Company is subject to
extensive regulation, investigations and legal action by national, state and
local government agencies in the U.S. and other countries in which it
operates. Regulatory issues regarding compliance with current Good
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) (and comparable quality regulations in foreign
countries) by manufacturers of drugs, devices and consumer products can lead
to fines and penalties, product recalls, product shortages, interruptions in
production, delays in new product approvals and litigation. In addition, the
marketing, pricing and sale of the Company's products are subject to
regulation, investigations and legal actions including under the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Medicaid Rebate Program, federal and state false
claims acts, state unfair trade practices acts and consumer protection laws.
Scrutiny of healthcare industry business practices by government agencies and
state attorneys general in the U.S., and any resulting investigations and
prosecutions, carry risk of significant civil and criminal penalties
including, but not limited to, debarment from participation in government
healthcare programs. Any such debarment could have a material adverse effect
on the Company's business and results of operations. The most significant
current investigations and litigation brought by government agencies are
described in Note 19, "Legal Proceedings--Government Proceedings" under Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

  

Changes in tax laws or exposures to additional tax liabilities could
negatively impact the Company's operating results.

Changes in tax laws or regulations around the world, including in the U.S. and
as led by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, such as
the recent adoption by the EU, enactment by South Korea and the anticipated
enactment

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

10  
  
* * *

  

by additional countries of a global minimum tax, could negatively impact the
Company's effective tax rate and results of operations. A change in statutory
tax rate or certain international tax provisions in any country would result
in the revaluation of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities
related to that particular jurisdiction in the period in which the new tax law
is enacted. This change would result in an expense or benefit recorded to the
Company's Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The Company closely monitors
these proposals as they arise in the countries where it operates. Changes to
tax laws or regulations may occur at any time, and any related expense or
benefit recorded may be material to the fiscal quarter and year in which the
law change is enacted.

  

See Note 8, "Income Taxes" under Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information.

  

The Company conducts business and files tax returns in numerous countries and
is addressing tax audits and disputes with many tax authorities. In connection
with various government initiatives, companies are required to disclose more
information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead
to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in other countries. The Company
regularly assesses the likely outcomes of its tax audits and disputes to
determine the appropriateness of its tax reserves. However, any tax authority
could take a position on tax treatment that is contrary to the Company's
expectations, which could result in tax liabilities in excess of reserves.

  

Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property

  

The Company faces increased challenges to intellectual property rights central
to its business.

The Company owns or licenses a significant number of patents and other
proprietary rights relating to its products and manufacturing processes. These
rights are essential to the Company's businesses and materially important to
the Company's results of operations. Public policy, both within and outside
the U.S., has become increasingly unfavorable toward intellectual property
rights. The Company cannot be certain that it will obtain adequate patent
protection for new products and technologies in the United States and other
important markets or that such protections, once granted, will last as long as
originally anticipated.

  

Competitors routinely challenge the validity or extent of the Company's owned
or licensed patents and proprietary rights through litigation, interferences,
oppositions and other proceedings, such as inter partes review (IPR)
proceedings before the United States Patent & Trademark Office (USPTO). These
proceedings absorb resources and can be protracted as well as unpredictable.
In addition, challenges that the Company's products infringe the patents of
third parties could result in an injunction and/or the need to pay past
damages and future royalties and adversely affect the competitive position and
sales of the products in question.

  

The Company has faced increasing patent challenges from third parties seeking
to manufacture and market generic and biosimilar versions of the Company's key
pharmaceutical products prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering
those products. In the U.S., manufacturers of generic versions of innovative
human pharmaceutical products may challenge the validity, or claim non-
infringement, of innovator products through the Abbreviated New Drug
Application, or ANDA, process with the U.S. FDA and related ANDA litigation.
The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (BPCIA), enacted in 2010,
which created a new regulatory pathway for the approval by the U.S. FDA of
biosimilar alternatives to innovator-developed biological products, also
created mechanisms for biosimilar applicants to challenge the patents on the
innovator biologics. The IPR process with the USPTO is also being used by
competitors to challenge patents asserted in litigation.

  

In the event the Company is not successful in defending its patents against
such challenges, or upon the "at-risk" launch by the generic or biosimilar
firm of its product, the Company can lose a major portion of revenues for the
referenced product in a very short period of time. Current legal proceedings
involving the Company's patents and other intellectual property rights are
described in Note 19, "Legal Proceedings--Intellectual Property" under Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

  

Risks Related to Product Development, Regulatory Approval and
Commercialization

  

Significant challenges or delays in the Company's innovation and development
of new products, technologies and indications could have an adverse impact on
the Company's long-term success.

The Company's continued growth and success depends on its ability to innovate
and develop new and differentiated products and services that address the
evolving healthcare needs of patients, providers and consumers. Development of
successful products and technologies is also necessary to offset revenue
losses when the Company's existing products lose market share due to various
factors such as competition and loss of patent exclusivity. New products
introduced within the past five years

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

11  
  
* * *

  

accounted for approximately 25% of 2022 sales. The Company cannot be certain
when or whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire
companies, products and technologies, whether particular product candidates
will be granted regulatory approval, and, if approved, whether the products
will be commercially successful.

  

The Company pursues product development through internal research and
development as well as through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures
and licensing or other arrangements with third parties. In all of these
contexts, developing new products, particularly pharmaceutical and
biotechnology products and medical devices, requires significant investment of
resources over many years. Only a very few biopharmaceutical research and
development programs result in commercially viable products. The process
depends on many factors including the ability to: discern patients' and
healthcare providers' future needs; develop promising new compounds,
strategies and technologies; achieve successful clinical trial results; secure
effective intellectual property protection; obtain regulatory approvals on a
timely basis; and, if and when they reach the market, successfully
differentiate the Company's products from competing products and approaches to
treatment. New products or enhancements to existing products may not be
accepted quickly or significantly in the marketplace due to product and price
competition, changes in customer preferences or healthcare purchasing
patterns, resistance by healthcare providers or uncertainty over third-party
reimbursement. Even following initial regulatory approval, the success of a
product can be adversely impacted by safety and efficacy findings in larger
real-world patient populations, as well as market entry of competitive
products.

  

Risks Related to Financial and Economic Market Conditions

  

The Company faces a variety of financial, economic, legal, social and
political risks associated with conducting business internationally.

The Company's extensive operations and business activity throughout the world
are accompanied by certain financial, economic, legal, social and political
risks, including those listed below.

  

Foreign Currency Exchange: In fiscal 2022, approximately 49% of the Company's
sales occurred outside of the U.S., with approximately 25% in Europe, 6% in
the Western Hemisphere, excluding the U.S., and 18% in the Asia-Pacific and
Africa region. Changes in non-U.S. currencies relative to the U.S. dollar
impact the Company's revenues and expenses. While the Company uses financial
instruments to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates
on its cash flows, unhedged exposures continue to be subject to currency
fluctuations. In addition, the weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar
may result in significant favorable or unfavorable translation effects when
the operating results of the Company's non-U.S. business activity are
translated into U.S. dollars.

  

Inflation and Currency Devaluation Risks: The Company faces challenges in
maintaining profitability of operations in economies experiencing high
inflation rates. Specifically, the Company has accounted for operations in
Argentina, Turkey and Venezuela as highly inflationary, as the prior three-
year cumulative inflation rate surpassed 100%. While the Company strives to
maintain profit margins in these areas through cost reduction programs,
productivity improvements and periodic price increases, it might experience
operating losses as a result of continued inflation. In addition, the impact
of currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or
significant currency exchange fluctuations could negatively impact the
Company's operating results.

  

Illegal Importation of Pharmaceutical Products: The illegal importation of
pharmaceutical products from countries where government price controls or
other market dynamics result in lower prices may adversely affect the
Company's sales and profitability in the U.S. and other countries in which the
Company operates. With the exception of limited quantities of prescription
drugs for personal use, foreign imports of pharmaceutical products are illegal
under current U.S. law. However, the volume of illegal imports continues to
rise as the ability of patients and other customers to obtain the lower-priced
imports has grown significantly.

  

Anti-Bribery and Other Regulations: The Company is subject to various federal
and foreign laws that govern its international business practices with respect
to payments to government officials. Those laws include the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits U.S. publicly traded companies
from promising, offering, or giving anything of value to foreign officials
with the corrupt intent of influencing the foreign official for the purpose of
helping the Company obtain or retain business or gain any improper advantage.
The Company's business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant
interaction with foreign officials. Also, in many countries outside the U.S.,
the healthcare providers who prescribe human pharmaceuticals are employed by
the government and the purchasers of human pharmaceuticals are government
entities; therefore, the Company's interactions with these prescribers and
purchasers are subject to regulation under the FCPA. In addition to the U.S.
application and enforcement of the FCPA, various jurisdictions in which the
Company operates have laws

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

12  
  
* * *

  

and regulations, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, aimed at preventing and
penalizing corrupt and anticompetitive behavior. Enforcement activities under
these laws could subject the Company to additional administrative and legal
proceedings and actions, which could include claims for civil penalties,
criminal sanctions, and administrative remedies, including exclusion from
healthcare programs.

  

Other Financial, Economic, Legal, Social and Political Risks. Other risks
inherent in conducting business globally include:

•local and regional economic environments and policies in the markets that we
serve, including interest rates, monetary policy, inflation, economic growth,
recession, commodity prices, and currency controls or other limitations on the
ability to expatriate cash;

•protective economic policies taken by governments, such as trade protection
measures and import/export licensing requirements;

•compliance with local regulations and laws including, in some countries,
regulatory requirements restricting the Company's ability to manufacture or
sell its products in the relevant market;

•diminished protection of intellectual property and contractual rights in
certain jurisdictions;

•potential nationalization or expropriation of the Company's foreign assets;

•political or social upheavals, economic instability, repression, or human
rights issues; and

•geopolitical events, including natural disasters, disruptions to markets due
to war, armed conflict, terrorism, epidemics or pandemics.

  

Failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our
liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets.

We currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with Moody's Investors
Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services. Rating agencies routinely
evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term and short-term debt are based
on a number of factors. Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating
agency, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our
control, can increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may
incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper or require the posting
of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. There can be no
assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any
additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings,
including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade,
may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to
capital markets.

  

The Russia-Ukraine War, and actions taken in response to the Russia-Ukraine
War, could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial
condition.

  

In February 2022, Russia launched a military invasion of Ukraine. The ongoing
Russia-Ukraine War has provoked strong reactions from the United States, the
United Kingdom, the European Union and various other countries and economic
and political organizations around the world. We have been monitoring the
geopolitical situation in Russia since the start of the Russia-Ukraine War and
have suspended additional investment, enrollment of clinical trials, and
supply of our personal care products in Russia. We continue to monitor the
need for humanitarian relief in the region and continue to supply our
medicines, medical devices and equipment in the region in compliance with the
applicable sanctions. We will continue to monitor the geopolitical situation
in Russia and to evaluate our activities and future operations in Russia.

  

Actions taken in response to the Russia-Ukraine War include the imposition of
export controls and broad financial and economic sanctions against Russia,
Belarus and specific areas of Ukraine. Additional sanctions or other measures
may be imposed by the global community, including but not limited to
limitations on our ability to file, prosecute and maintain patents, trademarks
and other intellectual property rights. Furthermore, the Russian government
has already taken action allowing Russian companies and individuals to exploit
inventions owned by patent holders from the United States and many other
countries without consent or compensation and we may not be able to prevent
third parties from practicing our inventions in Russia or from selling or
importing products in and into Russia.

  

We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, other risks related
to the broad economic consequences of the Russia-Ukraine War, including
foreign currency volatility, decreased demand for our products in countries
affected by the Russia-Ukraine War and challenges to our global supply chain
related to increased costs of materials and other inputs for our products and
suppliers operating in Russia and Ukraine. We also continue to monitor the
various sanctions and export controls imposed in response to the Russia-
Ukraine War.

  

The full impact of the Russia-Ukraine War, and actions taken in response to
the ongoing conflict, on the global economy and geopolitical relations, in
general, and on our business in particular, remain uncertain. Any or all of
the foregoing risks could

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

13  
  
* * *

  

have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition, particularly as the conflict continues for an indefinite period of
time. Given that developments concerning the Russia-Ukraine War are ongoing
and have been constantly evolving, additional impacts and risks may arise that
are not presently known to us. The Russia-Ukraine War may also have the effect
of heightening many of the other risks described in this "Risk Factors"
section.

  

Risks Related to the Planned Separation of our Consumer Health Business

  

The planned separation of the Company's Consumer Health business may not be
completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all, and may
not achieve the expected results.

In November 2021, the Company announced its intention to separate the
Company's Consumer Health business, with the intention to create a standalone
publicly traded company, which was subsequently named Kenvue, Inc. ("Kenvue").
The planned separation is intended to qualify as a tax-free transaction for
U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company is targeting completion of the
planned separation in 2023. Completion of the planned separation will be
subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including, among others,
consultations with works councils and other employee representative bodies, as
required, final approval by the Company's Board of Directors, the continuing
effectiveness and validity of the Company's private letter ruling from the
Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and receipt of favorable opinions of the
Company's U.S. tax advisors with respect to the tax-free nature of the
transaction, and the receipt of other regulatory approvals. There can be no
assurance regarding the ultimate timing of the planned separation or that such
separation will be completed. Unanticipated developments could delay, prevent
or otherwise adversely affect the planned separation, including but not
limited to disruptions in general or financial market conditions or potential
problems or delays in obtaining various regulatory and tax approvals or
clearances.

  

The costs to complete the planned separation will be significant. In addition,
the Company may be unable to achieve some or all of the strategic and
financial benefits that it expects to achieve from the planned separation of
the Company's Consumer Health business.

The Company has incurred, and is expected to incur, significant expenses in
connection with the planned separation. In addition, the Company may not be
able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that are expected to
result from the planned separation. The anticipated benefits of the planned
separation are based on a number of assumptions, some of which may prove
incorrect.

  

Following the planned separation, the price of shares of the Company's common
stock may fluctuate significantly.

The Company cannot predict the effect of the planned separation on the trading
price of shares of its common stock, and the market value of shares of its
common stock may be less than, equal to or greater than the market value of
shares of its common stock prior to the planned separation. In addition, the
price of the Company's common stock may be more volatile around the time of
the planned separation.

  

The planned separation could result in substantial tax liability.

The Company has received a private letter ruling from the IRS as to the tax-
free nature of the planned separation under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended. The planned separation is conditioned on, among other
things, the continuing effectiveness and validity of the Company's private
letter ruling from the IRS and receipt of favorable opinions of the Company's
U.S. tax advisors. The private letter ruling and opinions will be based on,
among other things, various facts, assumptions, representations and
undertakings from the Company and Kenvue regarding the past and future conduct
of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these
facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not
otherwise satisfied, the Company and its shareholders may not be able to rely
on the ruling or the opinions of tax advisors. Notwithstanding the private
letter ruling and opinions of tax advisors, if subsequent to the planned
separation the IRS determines that certain steps of the transaction do not
qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the
resulting tax liability to the Company and its shareholders could be
substantial. The planned separation may also not qualify for tax-free
treatment in other countries around the world, and as a result may trigger
substantial tax liability to the Company.

  

Other Risks

  

Our business depends on our ability to recruit and retain talented, highly
skilled employees and a diverse workforce.

Our continued growth requires us to recruit and retain talented employees
representing diverse backgrounds, experiences, and skill sets. The market for
highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive
and our ability to compete depends on our ability to hire, develop and
motivate highly skilled personnel in all areas of our organization.
Maintaining our brand and reputation, as well as a diverse, equitable and
inclusive work environment enables us to attract top talent. If we are less
successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain highly skilled
workers and key leaders, our ability to develop and deliver successful
products and services may be adversely affected. In addition, effective
succession planning is important to our long-term success. Any unsuccessful
implementation of our succession plans or failure to ensure effective transfer
of

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

14  
  
* * *

  

knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could adversely
affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.

  

Climate change or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate
change may negatively affect our business and results of operations.

Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and
other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere could present risks to our
operations, including an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather
patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural
disasters. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as a
hurricane, tornado, earthquake, wildfire or flooding, may pose physical risks
to our facilities and disrupt the operation of our supply chain. The impacts
of the changing climate on water resources may result in water scarcity,
limiting our ability to access sufficient high-quality water in certain
locations, which may increase operational costs.

  

Concern over climate change may also result in new or additional legal or
regulatory requirements designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and/or
mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment. If such laws or
regulations are more stringent than current legal or regulatory obligations,
we may experience disruption in, or an increase in the costs associated with
sourcing, manufacturing and distribution of our products, which may adversely
affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further,
the impacts of climate change have an influence on customer preferences, and
failure to provide climate-friendly products could potentially result in loss
of market share.

  

An information security incident, including a cybersecurity breach, could have
a negative impact to the Company's business or reputation.

To meet business objectives, the Company relies on both internal information
technology (IT) systems and networks, and those of third parties and their
vendors, to process and store sensitive data, including confidential research,
business plans, financial information, intellectual property, and personal
data that may be subject to legal protection, and ensure the continuity of the
Company's supply chain. The extensive information security and cybersecurity
threats, which affect companies globally, pose a risk to the security and
availability of these systems and networks, and the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of the Company's sensitive data. The Company
continually assesses these threats and makes investments to increase internal
protection, detection, and response capabilities, as well as ensure the
Company's third-party providers have required capabilities and controls, to
address this risk. To date, the Company has not experienced any material
impact to the business or operations resulting from information or
cybersecurity attacks; however, because of the frequently changing attack
techniques, along with the increased volume and sophistication of the attacks,
there is the potential for the Company to be adversely impacted. This impact
could result in reputational, competitive, operational or other business harm
as well as financial costs and regulatory action. The Company maintains
cybersecurity insurance in the event of an information security or cyber
incident; however, the coverage may not be sufficient to cover all financial,
legal, business or reputational losses.

  

As a result of the Russia-Ukraine War, there has been, and we expect there
will continue to be, an increased risk of information security or
cybersecurity incidents, including cyberattacks perpetrated by Russia or
others at its direction. Although we have taken steps to enhance our
protections against these attacks, we may not be able to address the threat of
information security or cybersecurity incidents proactively or implement
adequate preventative measures and we may not be able to detect and address
any such disruption or security breach promptly, or at all, which could
adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Moreover, we are aware of incidents in which our third-party partners have
been the target of information security or cybersecurity incidents as a result
of the Russia-Ukraine War. Although, to date, our IT Systems have not been
compromised by these incidents, it is possible that future information
security or cybersecurity incidents involving our customers, manufacturers,
suppliers or other third-party partners could successfully compromise our IT
Systems, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or
financial condition.

  

A breach of privacy laws or unauthorized access, loss or misuse of personal
data could have a negative impact to the Company's business or reputation.

The Company is subject to privacy and data protection laws across the globe
that impose broad compliance obligations on the collection, use, storage,
access, transfer and protection of personal data. Breach of such requirements
could result in substantial fines, penalties, private right of actions, claims
and damage to our reputation and business. New privacy laws are expected in
other territories, together with greater privacy enforcement by governmental
authorities globally, particularly on data localization requirements and
international data flows. The Company has established privacy compliance
programs and controls that our businesses worldwide are required to comply
with, but with many technology and data-driven initiatives being prioritized
across the Company and involving multiple vendors and third parties, there are
potential risks of controls imposed on cross border data flows, unauthorized
access, and loss of personal data through internal and external threats that
could impact our business operations and research activities.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

15  
  
* * *

  

  

Item 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

Not applicable.

  

Item 2.PROPERTIES

The Company's subsidiaries operate 89 manufacturing facilities occupying
approximately 14.9 million square feet of floor space. The manufacturing
facilities are used by the industry segments of the Company's business
approximately as follows:| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Segment

| | Square Feet  
(in thousands)  
Consumer Health| | 4,562 |  
Pharmaceutical| | 5,456 |  
MedTech| | 4,930 |  
Worldwide Total| | 14,948 |  
  
Within the U.S., four facilities are used by the Consumer Health segment, five
by the Pharmaceutical segment and 19 by the MedTech segment. Outside of the
U.S., 23 facilities are used by the Consumer Health segment, 13 by the
Pharmaceutical segment and 25 by the MedTech segment.

The locations of the manufacturing facilities by major geographic areas of the
world are as follows:| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Geographic Area| | Number of Facilities| | Square Feet  
(in thousands)  
United States| | 28 | | | 4,169 |  
Europe| | 27 | | | 6,016 |  
Western Hemisphere, excluding U.S. | | 9 | | | 1,733 |  
Africa, Asia and Pacific| | 25 | | | 3,030 |  
Worldwide Total| | 89 | | | 14,948 |  
| | | |  
  
In addition to the manufacturing facilities discussed above, the Company
maintains numerous office and warehouse facilities throughout the world.

The Company's subsidiaries generally seek to own, rather than lease, their
manufacturing facilities, although some, principally in non-U.S. locations,
are leased. Office and warehouse facilities are often leased. The Company also
engages contract manufacturers.

The Company is committed to maintaining all of its properties in good
operating condition.

Segment information on additions to property, plant and equipment is contained
in Note 17 "Segments of Business and Geographic Areas" of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

  

Item 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the information set forth in Note 19 "Legal Proceedings" of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

  

Item 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

16  
  
* * *

  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Listed below are the executive officers of the Company. There are no family
relationships between any of the executive officers, and there is no
arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other
person pursuant to which the executive officer was selected. At the annual
meeting of the Board of Directors, the executive officers are elected by the
Board to hold office for one year and until their respective successors are
elected and qualified, or until earlier resignation or removal.

Information with regard to the directors of the Company is incorporated herein
by reference to the material captioned "Item 1. Election of Directors" in the
Proxy Statement.| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Name| | Age| | Position  
Vanessa Broadhurst| | 54| |

Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Global Corporate
Affairs(a)  
  
Joaquin Duato| | 60| |

Chairman of the Board; Chief Executive Officer(b)  
  
Peter M. Fasolo, Ph.D.| | 60| |

Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources
Officer(c)  
  
Elizabeth Forminard| | 52| |

Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, General Counsel(d)  
  
William N. Hait, M.D., Ph. D.| | 73| |

Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Chief External
Innovation and Medical Safety Officer; Interim Head Janssen R&D(e)  
  
Ashley McEvoy| | 52| |

Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman,
MedTech(f)  
  
Thibaut Mongon| | 53| |

Member, Executive Committee, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman,
Consumer Health(g)  
  
James Swanson| | 57| |

Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Chief Information
Officer(h)  
  
Jennifer L. Taubert| | 59| |

Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman,
Pharmaceuticals(i)  
  
Kathryn E. Wengel| | 57| |

Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Chief Technical
Operations & Risk Officer(j)  
  
Joseph J. Wolk| | 56| |

Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer(k)  
  
(a)Ms. V. Broadhurst joined the Company in 2005 as Worldwide Vice President,
Anemia & Oncology Supportive Care. She then went on to become Vice President
of the Cardiovascular & Institutional Franchise in 2008, and President of
Janssen Therapeutics in 2011 before becoming U.S. President, Internal Medicine
in 2012. From 2013 to 2017, she held General Manager roles at Amgen in
Inflammation & Cardiovascular, and Cardiovascular & Bone. In 2017, Ms.
Broadhurst rejoined Johnson & Johnson as U.S. President, Cardiovascular &
Metabolism and a member of the Janssen Americas Leadership Team. In this role
she also provided operational oversight of the full portfolio of Janssen
medicines in Puerto Rico and Canada. In 2018, she was appointed Company Group
Chairman, Global Commercial Strategy Organization. In 2022, Ms. Broadhurst was
named Executive Vice President, Global Corporate Affairs and a member of the
Executive Committee, leading the Company's global marketing, communication,
Global Public Health and philanthropy functions.

(b)Mr. J. Duato became Chairman of the Board of Directors in January 2023
subsequent to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer and a Director in
January 2022. He joined the Company in 1989 with Janssen-Farmaceutica S.A.
(Spain), a subsidiary of the Company, and held executive positions of
increasing responsibility in all business sectors and across multiple
geographies and functions. In 2009, he was named Company Group Chairman,
Pharmaceuticals, and in 2011, he was named Worldwide Chairman,
Pharmaceuticals. In 2016, Mr. Duato became a member of the Executive Committee
and was named Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals.
In July 2018, Mr. Duato was promoted to Vice Chairman of the Executive
Committee, where he provided strategic direction for the Pharmaceutical and
Consumer Health sectors and oversaw both the Global Supply Chain, Information
Technology and Health & Wellness teams. As a dual citizen of Spain and the
United States, Mr. Duato's international perspective and global lens gives him
a deep appreciation of diverse thoughts and opinions.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

17  
  
* * *

  

(c)Dr. P. M. Fasolo joined the Company in 2004 as Worldwide Vice President,
Human Resources in the MedTech segment, and subsequently served as the
Company's Chief Talent Officer. He left Johnson & Johnson in 2007 to join
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. as Chief Talent Officer. Dr. Fasolo returned to
the Company in 2010 as the Vice President, Global Human Resources, and in
2011, he became a member of the Executive Committee. In April 2016, he was
named Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer. Dr. Fasolo has
responsibility for global talent, recruiting, diversity, compensation,
benefits, employee relations and all aspects of the human resources agenda for
the Company. He also serves on the Boards of the Human Resources Policy
Association, Tufts University and Save the Children and was named a Fellow of
the National Academy of Human Resources in 2017.

(d)Ms. Elizabeth Forminard joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Law,
Consumer Healthcare Global Business Unit and continued to serve in roles of
increasing responsibility. In 2012, she was promoted to General Counsel,
Medical Devices & Diagnostics and became General Counsel, Consumer Group &
Supply Chain in 2013. She was appointed Worldwide Vice President, Corporate
Governance in 2016. From 2019 to 2022, she served as General Counsel,
Pharmaceuticals. In October 2022, she was named Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and became a member of the Executive Committee. Ms. Forminard
has worldwide responsibility for the legal and privacy functions, and leads
the development and execution of the Company's environment, social and
governance strategy.

(e)Dr. W. Hait joined the Company in 2007 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide
Head of Oncology Research. He then served as the first Global Therapeutic Area
Head for Oncology from 2009 to 2011, and then as Global Head, Janssen Research
& Development from 2011 through 2018. From 2018 to 2022, he was Global Head,
Johnson & Johnson Global External Innovation. In 2022, he became Executive
Vice President, Chief External Innovation, Medical Safety and Global Public
Health Officer, and a member of the Executive Committee. He is responsible for
leading external sourcing and creation of transformational innovation to help
Johnson & Johnson achieve its mission to improve human health utilizing the
Company's excellence in pharmaceuticals, medical devices and consumer
products. He also has oversight over Global Public Health and the Office of
the Chief Medical Officer. As Interim Head of Janssen R&D, Dr. Hait's mission
is to focus the best research and development teams in the world at the
intersection of unmet medical need and breakthroughs in science and technology
to make medicines with benefit for patients worldwide.

(f)Ms. A. McEvoy joined the Company in 1996 as Assistant Brand Manager of
McNeil Consumer Health, a subsidiary of the Company, advancing through
positions of increasing responsibilities until she was appointed Company Group
Chairman, Vision Care in 2012, followed by Company Group Chairman, Consumer
Medical Devices in 2014. In July 2018, Ms. McEvoy was promoted to Executive
Vice President, Worldwide Chairman, MedTech, and became a member of the
Executive Committee. Ms. McEvoy has responsibility for the surgery,
orthopaedics, interventional solutions and eye health businesses across
Ethicon, DePuy Synthes, Biosense Webster, Abiomed, and Johnson & Johnson
Vision.

(g)Mr. T. Mongon joined the Company in 2000 as Director of Marketing for the
Vision Care group in France and subsequently held positions of increasing
responsibility until he transitioned to the Pharmaceutical sector in 2012, as
the Global Commercial Strategy Leader for the Neuroscience therapeutic area.
In 2014, he joined the Consumer Health sector as Company Group Chairman Asia-
Pacific. In 2019, he was promoted to Executive Vice President and Worldwide
Chairman, Consumer Health, and became a member of the Executive Committee. Mr.
Mongon has responsibility for the global development of Johnson & Johnson's
health and wellness products and solutions in beauty, OTC, oral care, baby
care, women's health, and wound care.

(h)Mr. J. Swanson rejoined the Company in 2019 as Chief Information Officer of
Johnson & Johnson from Bayer Crop Science, where he served as a member of the
Executive Leadership Team and as CIO and Head of Digital Transformation. From
1996 to 2005, Mr. Swanson held positions of increasing responsibility at the
Company, including Project Manager, Director IT, Sr. Director IT and Vice
President, Chief Information Officer. Mr. Swanson is responsible for enhancing
Johnson & Johnson's business impact and shaping its direction through the
strategic use of technology. Mr. Swanson, Executive Vice President, Enterprise
Chief Information Officer, joined the Executive Committee effective January 3,
2022.

(i)Ms. J. L. Taubert joined the Company in 2005 as Worldwide Vice President,
and she held several executive positions of increasing responsibility in the
Pharmaceutical sector. In 2012, she was appointed Company Group Chairman,
North America Pharmaceuticals, and in 2015 became Company Group Chairman, The
Americas, Pharmaceuticals. In July 2018, Ms. Taubert was promoted to Executive
Vice President, Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals, and became a member of
the Executive Committee. Ms. Taubert is responsible for the Pharmaceutical
sector globally, including shaping the company's strategy of transformational
medical innovation and for successfully bringing to market critical new
medicines that significantly improve the lives of patients living with cancer,
immune-related diseases, cardiovascular disease, infectious diseases,
pulmonary hypertension and serious mental illness.

(j)Ms. K. E. Wengel joined the Company in 1988 as Project Engineer and
Engineering Supervisor at Janssen, a subsidiary of the Company. During her
tenure with the Company, she has held a variety of strategic leadership and
executive positions, including in roles within operations, quality,
engineering, new products, information technology, and other technical and
business functions. In 2018, she was named Executive Vice President, Chief
Global Supply

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

18  
  
* * *

  

Chain Officer, and became a member of the Executive Committee. In January
2023, she was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Technical Operations &
Risk Officer. Ms. Wengel has enterprise-wide responsibilities for key
technical operations functions, including Procurement, Engineering & Property
Services, Sustainability and cross-sector Supply Chain teams focused on
standards, services, strategic programs and data science, and serves as Chair
of the Company's Supply Chain Management Committee. She also oversees critical
risk functions, including Quality & Compliance, Health Care Compliance,
Environmental Health & Safety, Global Security and Global Brand Protection.

(k)Mr. J. J. Wolk joined the Company in 1998 as Finance Manager, Business
Development for Ortho-McNeil, a subsidiary of the Company, and through the
years held a variety of senior leadership roles in several segments and
functions across the Company's subsidiaries, in Pharmaceuticals, Medical
Devices and Supply Chain. From 2014 to 2016, he served as Vice President,
Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of
Johnson & Johnson. In 2016, Mr. Wolk became the Vice President, Investor
Relations. In July 2018, he was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer and became a member of the Executive Committee. Mr. Wolk
plays a strategic role in the overall management of the Company, and leads the
development and execution of the Company's global long-term financial
strategy.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

19  
  
* * *

  

PART II

Item 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

As of February 10, 2023, there were 124,211 record holders of common stock of
the Company. Additional information called for by this item is incorporated
herein by reference to the following sections of this Report: Note 16 "Common
Stock, Stock Option Plans and Stock Compensation Agreements" of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8; and Item 12 "Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters - Equity Compensation Plan Information."

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

On September 14, 2022, the Company announced that its Board of Directors
approved a share repurchase program, authorizing the Company to purchase up to
$5.0 billion of the Company's Common Stock. Share repurchases may be made at
management's discretion from time to time on the open market or through
privately negotiated transactions. The repurchase program has no time limit
and may be suspended for periods or discontinued at any time.

The following table provides information with respect to common stock
purchases by the Company during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2022. Common
stock purchases on the open market are made as part of a systematic plan to
meet the needs of the Company's compensation programs. The repurchases below
also include the stock-for-stock option exercises that settled in the fiscal
fourth quarter.| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Fiscal Period| |

Total Number

of Shares Purchased(1)

| | Avg. Price  
Paid Per Share| |

Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced
Plans or Programs(2)

| |

Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) that May Yet
Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs(3)  
  
October 3, 2022 through October 30, 2022| | 3,921,949 | | | $| 165.29 | | |
3,179,491| | -  
October 31, 2022 through November 27, 2022| | 1,444,006 | | | 173.26 | | | -|
| -  
November 28, 2022 through January 1, 2023| | 2,379,100 | | | 178.18 | | | -| |
-  
Total| | 7,745,055 | | | | | 3,179,491| | 13,876,567 |  
  
(1) During the fiscal fourth quarter of 2022, the Company repurchased an
aggregate of 7,745,055 shares of Johnson & Johnson Common Stock in open-market
transactions, of which 3,179,491 shares were purchased pursuant to the
repurchase program that was publicly announced on September 14, 2022, and of
which 4,565,564 shares were purchased as part of a systematic plan to meet the
needs of the Company's compensation programs.

(2) As of January 1, 2023, an aggregate of 15,411,776 shares were purchased
for a total of $2.5 billion since the inception of the repurchase program
announced on September 14, 2022.

(3)  As of January 1, 2023, the maximum number of shares that may yet be
purchased under the plan is 13,876,567 based on the closing price of Johnson &
Johnson Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on December 30, 2022 of
$176.65 per share.

  

  

Item 6. Reserved

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

20  
  
* * *

  

Item 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
FINANCIAL CONDITION

Organization and Business Segments

Description of the Company and Business Segments

Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) have approximately
152,700 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development,
manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the healthcare field. The
Company conducts business in virtually all countries of the world with the
primary focus on products related to human health and well-being.

The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer Health,
Pharmaceutical and MedTech. The Consumer Health segment includes a broad range
of products used in the Baby Care, Oral Care, Skin Health/Beauty, Over-the-
Counter pharmaceutical, Women's Health and Wound Care markets. These products
are marketed to the general public and sold online (eCommerce) and to retail
outlets and distributors throughout the world. The Pharmaceutical segment is
focused on the following therapeutic areas, including Immunology, Infectious
diseases, Neuroscience, Oncology, Pulmonary Hypertension, and Cardiovascular
and Metabolic diseases. Products in this segment are distributed directly to
retailers, wholesalers, distributors, hospitals and healthcare professionals
for prescription use. The MedTech segment includes a broad portfolio of
products used in the Orthopaedic, Surgery, Interventional Solutions
(cardiovascular and neurovascular) and Vision fields. These products are
distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers, and used principally in
the professional fields by physicians, nurses, hospitals, eye care
professionals and clinics.

The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson is the principal management group
responsible for the strategic operations and allocation of the resources of
the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the
Consumer Health, Pharmaceutical and MedTech business segments.

In all of its product lines, the Company competes with other companies both
locally and globally, throughout the world. Competition exists in all product
lines without regard to the number and size of the competing companies
involved. Competition in research, involving the development and the
improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly
significant. The development of new and innovative products, as well as
protecting the underlying intellectual property of the Company's product
portfolio, is important to the Company's success in all areas of its business.
The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing
research. In addition, the development and maintenance of customer demand for
the Company's consumer products involves significant expenditures for
advertising and promotion.

  

Management's Objectives

With "Our Credo" as the foundation, the Company's purpose is to blend heart,
science and ingenuity to profoundly change the trajectory of health for
humanity. The Company is committed to bringing its full breadth and depth to
ensure health for people today and for future generations. United around this
common ambition, the Company is poised to fulfill its purpose and successfully
meet the demands of the rapidly evolving markets in which it competes.

The Company is broadly based in human healthcare, and is committed to creating
value by developing accessible, high quality, innovative products and
services. New products introduced within the past five years accounted for
approximately 25% of 2022 sales. In 2022, $14.6 billion was invested in
research and development reflecting management's commitment to create life-
enhancing innovations and to create value through partnerships that will
profoundly change the trajectory of health for humanity.

A critical driver of the Company's success is the diversity of its 152,700
employees worldwide. Employees are empowered and inspired to lead with Our
Credo and purpose as guides. This allows every employee to use the Company's
reach and size to advance the Company's purpose, and to also lead with agility
and urgency. Leveraging the extensive resources across the enterprise enables
the Company to innovate and execute with excellence. This ensures the Company
can remain focused on addressing the unmet needs of society every day and
invest for an enduring impact, ultimately delivering value to its patients,
consumers and healthcare professionals, employees, communities and
shareholders.

  

![jnj-20230101_g2.jpg](jnj-20230101_g2.jpg)
![jnj-20230101_g3.jpg](jnj-20230101_g3.jpg)
![jnj-20230101_g4.jpg](jnj-20230101_g4.jpg)

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

21  
  
* * *

  

Results of Operations

Analysis of Consolidated Sales

For discussion on results of operations and financial condition pertaining to
the fiscal years 2021 and 2020 see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2022, Item 7. Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

  

In 2022, worldwide sales increased 1.3% to $94.9 billion as compared to an
increase of 13.6% in 2021. These sales changes consisted of the following:

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Sales increase/(decrease) due to:| | 2022| | 2021| |  
Volume| | 6.9 | %| | 12.9 | %| |  
Price| | (0.8)| | | (0.7)| | |  
Currency| | (4.8)| | | 1.4 | | |  
Total| | 1.3 | %| | 13.6 | %| |  
  
  

The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures on the worldwide sales growth
was a negative impact of 0.1% in 2022 and a negative impact of 0.6% in 2021.

Sales by U.S. companies were $48.6 billion in 2022 and $47.2 billion in 2021.
This represents increases of 3.0% in 2022 and 9.3% in 2021. Sales by
international companies were $46.4 billion in 2022 and $46.6 billion in 2021.
This represents a decrease of 0.6% in 2022 and an increase of 18.2% in 2021.

The five-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S. and
international sales were 4.4%, 4.0% and 4.9%, respectively. The ten-year
compound annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S. and international sales were
3.5%, 5.0% and 2.2%, respectively.

In 2022, sales by companies in Europe experienced a decline of 0.6% as
compared to the prior year, which included operational growth of 11.0% and a
negative currency impact of 11.6%. Sales by companies in the Western
Hemisphere, excluding the U.S., achieved growth of 6.5% as compared to the
prior year, which included operational growth of 10.2%, and a negative
currency impact of 3.7%. Sales by companies in the Asia-Pacific, Africa region
experienced a decline of 2.8% as compared to the prior year, including
operational growth of 6.2% and a negative currency impact of 9.0%.

In 2022, the Company utilized three wholesalers distributing products for all
three segments that represented approximately 16.5%, 13.0% and 12.0% of the
total consolidated revenues. In 2021, the Company had three wholesalers
distributing products for all three segments that represented approximately
14.0%, 11.0% and 11.0% of the total consolidated revenues.

  

![jnj-20230101_g5.jpg](jnj-20230101_g5.jpg)![jnj-20230101_g6.jpg](jnj-20230101_g6.jpg)

  

Note: values may have been rounded

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

22  
  
* * *

  

Analysis of Sales by Business Segments

Consumer Health Segment

Consumer Health segment sales in 2022 were $15.0 billion, a decrease of 0.5%
from 2021, which included 3.6% operational growth and a negative currency
impact of 4.1%. U.S. Consumer Health segment sales were $6.6 billion, an
increase of 1.3%. International sales were $8.4 billion, a decrease of 1.9%,
which included 5.3% operational growth and a negative currency impact of 7.2%.
In 2022, acquisitions and divestitures had a net negative impact of 0.3% on
the operational sales growth of the worldwide Consumer Health segment.

Major Consumer Health Franchise Sales*:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  | |  | | Total| | Operations| | Currency  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | Change| | Change| | Change  
  
OTC(1)

| | $| 6,031 | | | 5,627 | | | 7.2 | %| | 11.2 | %| | (4.0)| %  
Skin Health/Beauty| | 4,352 | | | 4,541 | | | (4.2)| | | (0.4)| | | (3.8)|  
Oral Care| | 1,505 | | | 1,645 | | | (8.5)| | | (4.7)| | | (3.8)|  
Baby Care| | 1,461 | | | 1,566 | | | (6.7)| | | (2.4)| | | (4.3)|  
Women's Health| | 904 | | | 917 | | | (1.5)| | | 7.0 | | | (8.5)|  
Wound Care/Other| | 700 | | | 739 | | | (5.3)| | | (3.8)| | | (1.5)|  
Total Consumer Health Sales| | $| 14,953 | | | 15,035 | | | (0.5)| %| | 3.6 |
%| | (4.1)| %  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
*Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation

(1)Fiscal 2021 reflects approximately $0.4 billion of certain international
OTC products, primarily in China, which were reclassified from the
Pharmaceutical segment to the Consumer Health segment based on operational
changes

  

The OTC franchise sales of $6.0 billion increased 7.2% as compared to the
prior year. Operational growth was primarily attributable to increased
Cough/Cold/Flu, adult and pediatric incidences, price actions primarily in the
U.S. and increased consumption in China due to easing of COVID-19
restrictions. Growth was partially offset by supply constraints.

The Skin Health/Beauty franchise sales of $4.4 billion declined 4.2% as
compared to the prior year. The operational decline was driven by supply
constraints in the U.S. partially offset by price actions and strong new
product performance in the Asia Pacific and Latin America region.

The Oral Care franchise sales of $1.5 billion declined 8.5% as compared to the
prior year. The operational decline was due to portfolio simplification in the
U.S., competitive pressures in EMEA and China, category decline and pricing
pressures in EMEA, as well as suspension of personal care sales in Russia and
negative COVID-19 impacts in China.

The Baby Care franchise sales of $1.5 billion declined 6.7% as compared to the
prior year. The operational decline was driven by category deceleration and
competitive pressures in the U.S., suspension of personal care sales in Russia
and weakness in India.

The Women's Health franchise sales of $0.9 billion declined 1.5% as compared
to the prior year. Operational growth driven by lapping prior year supply
constraints in EMEA, strength in India, and price actions in LATAM was
partially offset by suspension of personal care sales in Russia and negative
currency impacts.

The Wound Care/Other franchise sales of $0.7 billion declined 5.3% as compared
to the prior year. The operational decline was driven by lapping strong prior
year consumption, competitive pressure in the U.S., and decreased consumption
in China.

In November 2021, the Company announced its intention to separate the
Company's Consumer Health business (Kenvue as the name for the planned New
Consumer Health Company), with the intention to create a new, publicly traded
company by the end of the fiscal year 2023.

  

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

23  
  
* * *

  

  

Pharmaceutical Segment

Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2022 were $52.6 billion, an increase of 1.7%
from 2021, which included operational growth of 6.7% and a negative currency
impact of 5.0%. U.S. sales were $28.6 billion, an increase of 2.3%.
International sales were $24.0 billion, an increase of 1.0%, which included
11.9% operational growth and a negative currency impact of 10.9%. In 2022,
acquisitions and divestitures had a net negative impact of 0.1% on the
operational sales growth of the worldwide Pharmaceutical segment. Adjustments
to previous sales reserve estimates were approximately $0.1 billion and $0.7
billion in fiscal years 2022 and 2021, respectively.

  

Major Pharmaceutical Therapeutic Area Sales*:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | | | | | Total| | Operations| | Currency| |  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | | | Change| | Change| | Change| |  
Total Immunology| | $| 16,935 | | | 16,750 | | | | | 1.1 | %| | 4.8 | %| |
(3.7)| %| |  
REMICADE| | 2,343 | | | 3,190 | | | | | (26.6)| | | (25.3)| | | (1.3)| | |  
SIMPONI/SIMPONI ARIA| | 2,184 | | | 2,276 | | | | | (4.0)| | | 1.0 | | |
(5.0)| | |  
STELARA| | 9,723 | | | 9,134 | | | | | 6.5 | | | 10.4 | | | (3.9)| | |  
TREMFYA| | 2,668 | | | 2,127 | | | | | 25.4 | | | 30.1 | | | (4.7)| | |  
Other Immunology| | 17 | | | 24 | | | | | (28.2)| | | (28.2)| | | 0.0 | | |  
Total Infectious Diseases| | 5,449 | | | 5,825 | | | | | (6.5)| | | 0.8 | | |
(7.3)| | |  
COVID-19 VACCINE| | 2,179 | | | 2,385 | | | | | (8.6)| | | 2.0 | | | (10.6)| |
|  
EDURANT/rilpivirine| | 1,008 | | | 994 | | | | | 1.5 | | | 11.8 | | | (10.3)|
| |  
PREZISTA/ PREZCOBIX/REZOLSTA/ SYMTUZA| | 1,943 | | | 2,083 | | | | | (6.7)| |
| (4.4)| | | (2.3)| | |  
  
Other Infectious Diseases(2)

| | 318 | | | 363 | | | | | (12.3)| | | (7.2)| | | (5.1)| | |  
Total Neuroscience| | 6,893 | | | 6,988 | | | | | (1.4)| | | 3.4 | | | (4.8)|
| |  
CONCERTA/methylphenidate| | 644 | | | 667 | | | | | (3.5)| | | 4.1 | | |
(7.6)| | |  
INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION/  
INVEGA TRINZA/TREVICTA| | 4,140 | | | 4,022 | | | | | 3.0 | | | 6.9 | | |
(3.9)| | |  
RISPERDAL CONSTA| | 485 | | | 592 | | | | | (18.1)| | | (13.0)| | | (5.1)| | |  
  
Other Neuroscience(2)

| | 1,623 | | | 1,706 | | | | | (4.9)| | | 0.4 | | | (5.3)| | |  
Total Oncology| | 15,983 | | | 14,548 | | | | | 9.9 | | | 16.9 | | | (7.0)| |
|  
DARZALEX| | 7,977 | | | 6,023 | | | | | 32.4 | | | 39.5 | | | (7.1)| | |  
ERLEADA| | 1,881 | | | 1,291 | | | | | 45.7 | | | 53.0 | | | (7.3)| | |  
IMBRUVICA| | 3,784 | | | 4,369 | | | | | (13.4)| | | (7.6)| | | (5.8)| | |  
ZYTIGA /abiraterone acetate| | 1,770 | | | 2,297 | | | | | (22.9)| | | (13.6)|
| | (9.3)| | |  
Other Oncology| | 571 | | | 568 | | | | | 0.6 | | | 6.0 | | | (5.4)| | |  
Total Pulmonary Hypertension | | 3,417 | | | 3,450 | | | | | (1.0)| | | 3.0 |
| | (4.0)| | |  
OPSUMIT| | 1,783 | | | 1,819 | | | | | (2.0)| | | 2.6 | | | (4.6)| | |  
UPTRAVI| | 1,322 | | | 1,237 | | | | | 6.9 | | | 8.6 | | | (1.7)| | |  
Other Pulmonary Hypertension| | 313 | | | 395 | | | | | (20.8)| | | (13.1)| |
| (7.7)| | |  
Total Cardiovascular / Metabolism / Other| | 3,887 | | | 4,119 | | | | |
(5.6)| | | (4.0)| | | (1.6)| | |  
XARELTO| | 2,473 | | | 2,438 | | | | | 1.4 | | | 1.4 | | | -- | | |  
INVOKANA/ INVOKAMET| | 448 | | | 563 | | | | | (20.4)| | | (17.2)| | | (3.2)|
| |  
  
Other(1,2)

| | 966 | | | 1,119 | | | | | (13.6)| | | (9.3)| | | (4.3)| | |  
Total Pharmaceutical Sales| | $| 52,563 | | | 51,680 | | | | | 1.7 | %| | 6.7
| %| | (5.0)| %| |  
  
*Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation

(1) Inclusive of PROCRIT / EPREX which was previously disclosed separately

(2) Fiscal 2021 reflects approximately $0.4 billion of certain international
OTC products, primarily in China, which were reclassified from the
Pharmaceutical segment to the Consumer Health segment based on operational
changes

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

24  
  
* * *

  

  

Immunology products achieved sales of $16.9 billion in 2022, representing an
increase of 1.1% as compared to the prior year. Operational growth was driven
by strong uptake of STELARA (ustekinumab) in Crohn's disease and Ulcerative
Colitis and strength of TREMFYA (guselkumab) in Psoriasis and uptake in
Psoriatic Arthritis. This was partially offset by lower sales of REMICADE
(infliximab) due to biosimilar competition.

Biosimilar versions of REMICADE have been introduced in the United States and
certain markets outside the United States and additional competitors continue
to enter the market. Continued infliximab biosimilar competition will result
in a further reduction in sales of REMICADE.

The latest expiring United States patent for STELARA (ustekinumab) will expire
in September 2023. STELARA (ustekinumab) U.S. sales in fiscal 2022 were
approximately $6.4 billion and the expiration of this product patent or loss
of market exclusivity will result in a reduction in sales.

Infectious disease products sales were $5.4 billion in 2022, representing a
decline of 6.5% as compared to the prior year. Operational growth was driven
by the COVID-19 vaccine outside the U.S partially offset by lower sales of
PREZISTA and PREZCOBIX/REZOLSTA (darunavir/cobicistat) due to increased
competition and loss of exclusivity of PREZISTA in certain countries outside
the U.S.

Neuroscience products sales were $6.9 billion, in 2022, representing a decline
of 1.4% as compared to the prior year. The operational sales growth of INVEGA
SUSTENNA/XEPLION (paliperidone palmitate) and INVEGA TRINZA/TREVICTA from new
patient starts and persistence as well as the launch of INVEGA HAFYERA was
offset by negative currency impacts and lower sales of RISPERDAL CONSTA.

Oncology products achieved sales of $16.0 billion in 2022, representing an
increase of 9.9% as compared to the prior year. Contributions to operational
growth were strong sales of DARZALEX (daratumumab) driven by share gains in
all regions, continued strong market growth, and uptake of the subcutaneous
formulation as well as the continued global launch uptake of ERLEADA
(apalutamide). This was partially offset by declining sales of IMBRUVICA
(ibrutinib) due to competitive pressures and market suppression and ZYTIGA due
to loss of exclusivity in the European Union in the second half of 2022.

Pulmonary Hypertension products sales were $3.4 billion, a decline of 1.0% as
compared to the prior year. The operational sales growth of OPSUMIT
(macitentan) and UPTRAVI (selexipag) due to continued share gains and market
growth was offset by COVID-19 related impacts and continued declines in Other
Pulmonary Hypertension.

Cardiovascular/Metabolism/Other products sales were $3.9 billion, a decline of
5.6% as compared to the prior year. The operational decline was primarily
attributable to lower sales of INVOKANA/INVOKAMET (canagliflozin) due to share
erosion and PROCRIT/ EPREX (epoetin alfa) due to biosimilar competition.

  

The Company updated its policy so that no end customer will be permitted
direct delivery of product to a location other than the billing location. The
policy impacts contract pharmacy transactions involving non-grantee 340B
covered entities for most of the Company's drugs, subject to multiple
exceptions. Both grantee and non-grantee covered entities can maintain certain
contract pharmacy arrangements under policy exceptions. The Company has been
and will continue to offer 340B discounts to covered entities on all of its
covered outpatient drugs, and it believes its policy will improve its ability
to identify inappropriate duplicate discounts and diversion prohibited by the
340B statute. The 340B Drug Pricing Program is a U.S. federal government
program requiring drug manufacturers to provide significant discounts on
covered outpatient drugs to covered entities. This policy update had discount
implications which positively impacted sales to customers in 2022.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

25  
  
* * *

  

  

During 2022, the Company advanced its pipeline with several regulatory
submissions and approvals for new drugs and additional indications for
existing drugs as follows:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Product Name (Chemical Name)| Indication| US Approval| EU Approval| US Filing|
EU Filing  
aprocitentan| Treatment for difficult to treat hypertension| | | •|  
CABENUVA (rilpivirine and cabotegravir)| HIV treatment for adolescents| •| | |  
CARVYKTI (ciltacabtagene autoleucel)| Treatment for patients with relapsed or
refractory Multiple Myeloma| •| •| |  
ERLEADA  
(apalutamide)| Tablet reduction| | | •| •  
IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib)| Treatment for Pediatric Patients with Chronic Graft-
Versus-Host Disease| •| | |  
| Treatment for Frontline Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (I + V fixed duration)
(GLOW)| | •| |  
niraparib| Treatment of L1 Prostate cancer metastatic castration-resistant in
combination with abiraterone acetate and Prednisone| | | | •  
STELARA (ustekinumab)| Treatment of Pediatric Patients with Juvenile Psoriatic
Arthritis| •| | |  
Talquetamab| Treatment of Patients with Relapsed Refractory Multiple Myeloma|
| | •|  
teclistamab  
(BCMA/CD3)| Treatment of Patients with Relapsed Refractory Multiple Myeloma|
•| •| |  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

26  
  
* * *

  

  

MedTech Segment**

The MedTech segment sales in 2022 were $27.4 billion, an increase of 1.4% from
2021, which included operational growth of 6.2% and a negative currency impact
of 4.8%. U.S. sales were $13.4 billion, an increase of 5.4% as compared to the
prior year. International sales were $14.1 billion, a decrease of 2.3% as
compared to the prior year, which included operational growth of 6.9% and a
negative currency impact of 9.2%. In 2022, the net impact of acquisitions and
divestitures on the MedTech segment worldwide operational sales growth was a
positive 0.1%.

Major MedTech Franchise Sales*:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  | |  | | | | Total| | Operations| | Currency| |  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | | | Change| | Change| | Change| |  
Surgery| | $| 9,690 | | | 9,812 | | | | | (1.2)| %| | 3.8 | %| | (5.0)| %| |  
Advanced| | 4,569 | | | 4,622 | | | | | (1.1)| | | 3.8 | | | (4.9)| | |  
General| | 5,121 | | | 5,190 | | | | | (1.3)| | | 3.8 | | | (5.1)| | |  
Orthopaedics| | 8,587 | | | 8,588 | | | | | 0.0 | | | 3.7 | | | (3.7)| | |  
Hips| | 1,514 | | | 1,480 | | | | | 2.3 | | | 5.8 | | | (3.5)| | |  
Knees| | 1,359 | | | 1,325 | | | | | 2.6 | | | 6.1 | | | (3.5)| | |  
Trauma| | 2,871 | | | 2,885 | | | | | (0.5)| | | 3.1 | | | (3.6)| | |  
Spine, Sports & Other| | 2,843 | | | 2,898 | | | | | (1.9)| | | 1.9 | | |
(3.8)| | |  
Vision| | 4,849 | | | 4,688 | | | | | 3.4 | | | 9.5 | | | (6.1)| | |  
Contact Lenses/Other| | 3,543 | | | 3,440 | | | | | 3.0 | | | 9.6 | | | (6.6)|
| |  
Surgical| | 1,306 | | | 1,248 | | | | | 4.6 | | | 9.4 | | | (4.8)| | |  
  
Interventional Solutions

| | 4,300 | | | 3,971 | | | | | 8.3 | | | 13.7 | | | (5.4)| | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total MedTech Sales| | $| 27,427 | | | 27,060 | | | | | 1.4 | %| | 6.2 | %| |
(4.8)| %| |  
  
*Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation

**Previously referred to as Medical Devices

  

The Surgery franchise sales were $9.7 billion in 2022, representing a decline
of 1.2% from 2021. The operational growth in Advanced Surgery was primarily
driven by the following: Endocutter market recovery and new products partially
offset by competitive pressures in the U.S.; Biosurgery market recovery and
the success of new products partially offset by strong U.S. market demand in
the prior year for infection prevention products; and Energy products driven
by market recovery and new product penetration coupled with competitive supply
challenges. The operational growth in General Surgery was primarily driven by
market recovery and technology penetration.

The Orthopaedics franchise sales were $8.6 billion in 2022, which was flat to
the prior year. The Orthopaedics franchise included operational sales growth
of 3.7% offset by a negative currency impact of 3.7%. The operational growth
in hips reflects the market recovery combined with continued strength of the
portfolio including the ACTIS stem and enabling technologies - KINCISE and
VELYS Hip Navigation. This growth was partially offset by impacts of volume-
based procurement in China and the timing of tenders outside the U.S. The
operational growth in knees was primarily driven by procedure recovery,
strength of the ATTUNE portfolio and pull through related to the VELYS Robotic
assisted solution. This growth was partially offset by impacts of volume-based
procurement in China and timing of tenders outside the U.S. The operational
growth in Trauma was driven by global market recovery and uptake of new
products. The operational growth in Spine, Sports & Other was primarily driven
by procedure recovery and new product introductions. This growth was partially
offset by competitive pressures in Spine and impacts of volume-based
procurement in China.

The Vision franchise achieved sales of $4.8 billion in 2022, representing an
increase of 3.4% from 2021. The Contact Lenses/Other operational growth was
due to market recovery, price actions, commercial execution and benefits from
new products. Surgical Vision operational growth was primarily due to market
recovery and the success of new products and was partially offset by a higher
prior year U.S. Refractory market.

The Interventional Solutions franchise achieved sales of $4.3 billion in 2022,
representing an increase of 8.3% from 2021. Operational growth was driven by
market recovery and success of new products and commercial strategies.
Interventional solutions also includes sales from Abiomed, Inc. (Abiomed)
which were reflected as of December 22, 2022.

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

27  
  
* * *

  

Analysis of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision for Taxes on Income

Consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income was $21.7 billion
and $22.8 billion for the years 2022 and 2021, respectively. As a percent to
sales, consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income was 22.9%
and 24.3%, in 2022 and 2021, respectively.

  

![jnj-20230101_g7.jpg](jnj-20230101_g7.jpg)

(Dollars in billions. Percentages in chart are as a percent to total sales)

  

  

Cost of Products Sold and Selling, Marketing and Administrative Expenses:

  

![jnj-20230101_g8.jpg](jnj-20230101_g8.jpg)![jnj-20230101_g9.jpg](jnj-20230101_g9.jpg)

(Dollars in billions. Percentages in chart are as a percent to total sales)

  

Cost of products sold increased as a percent to sales driven by:

•One-time COVID-19 vaccine manufacturing exit related costs

•Currency impacts in the Pharmaceutical segment

•Commodity inflation in the MedTech and Consumer Health segments

partially offset by

•Supply chain benefits in the Consumer Health segment

The intangible asset amortization expense included in cost of products sold
was $4.3 billion and $4.7 billion for the fiscal years 2022 and 2021,
respectively.

  

28

* * *

  

  

Selling, Marketing and Administrative Expenses decreased as a percent to sales
driven by:

•Reduction of brand marketing expenses in the Pharmaceutical and Consumer
Health businesses

  

Research and Development Expense:

Research and development expense by segment of business was as follows:| | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | 2022| | 2021| |  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Amount| | % of Sales*| | Amount| | % of Sales*| | | |  
Consumer Health| | $| 493 | | | 3.3 | %| | $| 459 | | | 3.1 | %| | | |  
Pharmaceutical| | 11,622 | | | 22.1 | | | 11,878 | | | 23.0 | | | | |  
MedTech| | 2,488 | | | 9.1 | | | 2,377 | | | 8.8 | | | | |  
Total research and development expense| | $| 14,603 | | | 15.4 | %| | $|
14,714 | | | 15.7 | %| | | |  
Percent increase/(decrease) over the prior year| | (0.8)| %| |  | | 21.0 | %|
|  | | | |  
*As a percent to segment sales | | | | | | | | | | | |   
  
Research and development activities represent a significant part of the
Company's business. These expenditures relate to the processes of discovering,
testing and developing new products, upfront payments and developmental
milestones, improving existing products, as well as ensuring product efficacy
and regulatory compliance prior to launch. The Company remains committed to
investing in research and development with the aim of delivering high quality
and innovative products.

Research and Development decreased as a percent to sales primarily driven by:

•Lower milestone payments in the Pharmaceutical business

  

In-Process Research and Development (IPR&D): In the fiscal year 2022, the
Company recorded an intangible asset impairment charge of approximately $0.8
billion related to an in-process research and development asset, bermekimab
(JnJ-77474462), an investigational drug for the treatment of Atopic Dermatitis
(AD) and Hidradenitis Suppurativa (HS). Additional information regarding
efficacy of the AD indication and HS indication became available which led the
Company to the decision to terminate the development of bermekimab for both AD
and HS. The Company acquired all rights to bermekimab from XBiotech, Inc. in
the fiscal year 2020. In fiscal year 2021, the Company recorded a partial
IPR&D charge of $0.9 billion primarily related to expected development delays
in the general surgery digital robotics platform (Ottava) acquired with the
Auris Health acquisition in 2019. The impairment charge was calculated based
on revisions to the discounted cash flow valuation model reflecting a delay of
first in human procedures of approximately two years from the initial
acquisition model assumption of the second half of 2022. The Company will
continue to monitor the remaining $1.5 billion Ottava platform intangible
asset as development program activities are ongoing.

  

Other (Income) Expense, Net: Other (income) expense, net is the account where
the Company records gains and losses related to the sale and write-down of
certain investments in equity securities held by Johnson & Johnson Innovation
- JJDC, Inc. (JJDC), changes in the fair value of securities, investment
(income)/loss related to employee benefit programs, gains and losses on
divestitures, certain transactional currency gains and losses, acquisition and
divestiture related costs, litigation accruals and settlements, as well as
royalty income.

  

Other (income) expense, net for the fiscal year 2022 was unfavorable by $1.4
billion as compared to the prior year primarily due to the following:| | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Billions)(Income)/Expense| | 2022| | 2021| | Change  
Consumer Health separation costs| | $| 1.0 | | | 0.1 | | | 0.9 |  
  
Litigation related(1)

| | 0.9 | | | 2.3 | | | (1.4)|  
Changes in the fair value of securities| | 0.7 | | | (0.5)| | | 1.2 |  
One-time COVID-19 vaccine manufacturing exit related costs| | 0.7 | | | 0.0 |
| | 0.7 |  
  
Acquisition, Integration and Divestiture related(2)

| | 0.1 | | | (0.5)| | | 0.6 |  
Restructuring related| | 0.1 | | | 0.1 | | | 0.0 |  
Employee benefit plan related| | (1.2)| | | (0.6)| | | (0.6)|  
Other| | (0.4)| | | (0.4)| | | -- |  
Total Other (Income) Expense, Net| | $| 1.9 | | | 0.5 | | | 1.4 |  
  
(1)2022 was primarily related to pelvic mesh and 2021 was primarily related to
talc and Risperdal Gynecomastia

(2)2022 was primarily costs related to the acquisition of Abiomed. 2021 was
primarily related to divestiture gains of two pharmaceutical brands outside
the U.S.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

29  
  
* * *

  

  

Interest (Income) Expense: Interest (income) expense in the fiscal of 2022 was
net interest income of $214 million as compared to interest expense of $130
million in the fiscal year 2021 primarily due to higher rates of interest
earned on cash balances. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
totaled $23.5 billion at the end of 2022, and averaged $27.6 billion as
compared to the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities total of
$31.6 billion and $28.4 billion average cash balance in 2021. The total debt
balance at the end of 2022 was $39.7 billion with an average debt balance of
$36.7 billion as compared to $33.8 billion at the end of 2021 and an average
debt balance of $34.5 billion. The lower average cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities and higher average debt balance were primarily due to
the acquisition of Abiomed in late December of 2022.

Income Before Tax by Segment

Income (loss) before tax by segment of business were as follows:| | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Income Before Tax| | Segment Sales| | Percent of Segment Sales  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
  
Consumer Health(3)

| | $| 2,930 | | | 1,573 | | | 14,953 | | | 15,035 | | | 19.6 | %| | 10.5 |  
  
Pharmaceutical(3)

| | 15,901 | | | 17,969 | | | 52,563 | | | 51,680 | | | 30.3 | | | 34.8 |  
MedTech| | 4,607 | | | 4,373 | | | 27,427 | | | 27,060 | | | 16.8 | | | 16.2 |  
  
Segment earnings before tax(1)

| | 23,438 | | | 23,915 | | | 94,943 | | | 93,775 | | | 24.7 | | | 25.5 |  
  
Less: Expenses not allocated to segments(2)

| | 624 | | | 1,072 | | | | | | | | |  
Less: Consumer Health separation costs| | 1,089 | | | 67 | | | | | | |  | |  
Worldwide income before tax| | $| 21,725 | | | 22,776 | | | 94,943 | | |
93,775 | | | 22.9 | %| | 24.3 |  
  
  

(1)See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details.

(2)Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income) expense and
general corporate (income) expense.

(3)Prior year income before tax of approximately $0.2 billion has been
reclassified as certain international OTC products, primarily in China, were
reclassified from the Pharmaceutical segment to the Consumer Health segment
based on operational changes.

Consumer Health Segment:

In 2022, the Consumer Health segment income before tax as a percent of sales
was 19.6% versus 10.5% in 2021. The increase in the income before tax as a
percent of sales was primarily driven by the following:

•Lower litigation expense of $0.2 billion in 2022 versus $1.6 billion
(primarily talc related) in 2021

•Reduction in brand marketing expenses in 2022 versus 2021

•Supply chain benefits in 2022

partially offset by:

•Commodity inflation in 2022

Pharmaceutical Segment:

In 2022, the Pharmaceutical segment income before tax as a percent to sales
was 30.3% versus 34.8% in 2021. The decrease in the income before tax as a
percent of sales was primarily driven by the following:

•One-time COVID-19 vaccine manufacturing exit related costs of $1.5 billion in
2022

•Unfavorable changes in the fair value of securities ($0.7 billion loss in
2022 vs. $0.5 billion gain in 2021)

•An IPR&D charge of $0.8 billion in 2022 related to bermekimab (JnJ-77474462),
an investigational drug for the treatment of Atopic Dermatitis (AD) and
Hidradenitis Suppurativa (HS)

•Lower divestiture gains of $0.1 billion in 2022 versus $0.6 billion related
to two pharmaceutical brands outside the U.S. in fiscal 2021

•Currency impacts in Cost of Products Sold

partially offset by:

•Lower litigation related expense of $0.1 billion in 2022 versus $0.6 billion
(primarily related to Risperdal Gynecomastia) in 2021

•Lower Research & Development milestone payments in 2022

•Lower brand marketing expenses in 2022 versus 2021

In fiscal 2020 and 2021, the Company entered into a series of contract
manufacturing arrangements for vaccine production with third party contract
manufacturing organizations. These arrangements provided the Company with
supplemental commercial capacity for vaccine production and potentially
transferable rights to such production if capacity is not required. The
Company continues to evaluate and monitor both its internal and external
supply arrangements. In fiscal 2022, the COVID-19 Vaccine related costs
(mentioned above) included the remaining commitments and obligations,
including external manufacturing network exit and related inventory costs and
required clinical trial expenses, associated with the Company's modification
of its

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

30  
  
* * *

  

COVID-19 vaccine research program and manufacturing capacity to levels that
meet all remaining customer contractual requirements.

MedTech Segment:

In 2022, the MedTech segment income before tax as a percent to sales was 16.8%
versus 16.2% in 2021. The increase in the income before tax as a percent to
sales was primarily driven by the following:

•An IPR&D charge of $0.9 billion in 2021 related to the general surgery
offering in digital robotics (Ottava) acquired with the Auris Health
acquisition in 2019

partially offset by:

•Higher litigation related expense of $0.6 billion in 2022, primarily related
to pelvic mesh costs versus $0.1 billion in 2021

•Acquisition related costs of $0.3 billion in 2022 related to the Abiomed
acquisition versus $0.1 billion in 2021

  

Restructuring: In the fiscal second quarter of 2018, the Company announced
plans to implement actions across its Global Supply Chain that are intended to
enable the Company to focus resources and increase investments in critical
capabilities, technologies and solutions necessary to manufacture and supply
its product portfolio of the future, enhance agility and drive growth. The
Global Supply Chain actions included expanding its use of strategic
collaborations, and bolstering its initiatives to reduce complexity, improving
cost-competitiveness, enhancing capabilities and optimizing its supply chain
network. The Company has achieved approximately $0.8 billion in annual pre-tax
cost savings as outlined in the restructuring actions. In 2022, the Company
recorded a pre-tax charge of $0.5 billion, which is included on the following
lines of the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, $0.3 billion in
restructuring, $0.1 billion in other (income) expense and $0.1 billion in cost
of products sold. Total project costs of approximately $2.2 billion have been
recorded since the restructuring was announced. The program was completed in
the fiscal fourth quarter of 2022.

  

See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details
related to the restructuring programs.

  

Provision for Taxes on Income: The worldwide effective income tax rate was
17.4% in 2022 and 8.3% in 2021.

In the fiscal 2022, the Company incurred approximately $0.5 billion net
incremental international tax cost related to the legal separation of the
Consumer Health business, and may continue to incur additional cost in fiscal
2023.

On December 15, 2022, the European Union (EU) Member States formally adopted
the EU's Pillar Two Directive, which generally provides for a minimum
effective tax rate of 15%, as established by the Organization for Economic Co-
operation and Development (OECD) Pillar Two Framework that was supported by
over 130 countries worldwide. The EU effective dates are January 1, 2024, and
January 1, 2025, for different aspects of the directive.

A significant number of other countries are expected to also implement similar
legislation, including South Korea which approved legislation on December 23,
2022 with a full effective date of January 1, 2024. The Company is continuing
to evaluate the potential impact on future periods of the Pillar Two
Framework, pending legislative adoption by additional individual countries,
including those within the European Union.

  

For discussion related to the fiscal 2022 provision for taxes refer to Note 8
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

  

  

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity & Cash Flows

Cash and cash equivalents were $14.1 billion at the end of 2022 as compared to
$14.5 billion at the end of 2021.

The primary sources and uses of cash that contributed to the $0.4 billion
decrease were:| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars In Billions)|  
$| 14.5 | | Q4 2021 Cash and cash equivalents balance  
21.2 | | cash generated from operating activities  
(12.4)| | net cash used by investing activities  
(8.9)| | net cash used by financing activities  
$| (0.3)| | effect of exchange rate and rounding  
$| 14.1 | | Q4 2022 Cash and cash equivalents balance  
  
  

In addition, the Company had $9.4 billion in marketable securities at the end
of fiscal year 2022 and $17.1 billion at the end of fiscal year 2021. See Note
1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on cash,
cash equivalents and marketable securities.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

31  
  
* * *

  

Cash flow from operations of $21.2 billion was the result of:| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars In Billions)|  
$| 17.9 | | Net Earnings  
7.3 | | non-cash expenses and other adjustments primarily for depreciation and
amortization, stock-based compensation and asset write-downs partially offset
by the deferred tax provision, net gain on sale of assets/businesses and
credit losses and accounts receivable allowances  
(2.0)| | a decrease in current and non-current liabilities  
0.7 | | a decrease in other current and non-current assets  
1.1 | | an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities  
|  
(3.8)| | an increase in accounts receivable and inventories  
$| 21.2 | | Cash Flow from operations  
  
  

Investing activities use of $12.4 billion of cash was primarily used for:| | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars In Billions)|  
$| (4.0)| | additions to property, plant and equipment  
(17.7)| | acquisitions  
0.5 | | proceeds from the disposal of assets/businesses, net  
9.2 | | net sales of investments  
(0.2)| | Credit support agreements activity, net  
(0.2)| | other (primarily licenses and milestones) and rounding  
$| (12.4)| | Net cash used for investing activities  
  
  

Financing activities use of $8.9 billion of cash was primarily used for: | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars In Billions)|  
$| (11.7)| | dividends to shareholders  
(6.0)| | repurchase of common stock  
7.5 | | net proceeds from short and long term debt  
1.3 | | proceeds from stock options exercised/employee withholding tax on
stock awards, net  
$| (8.9)| | Net cash used for financing activities  
  
  

As of January 1, 2023, the Company's notes payable and long-term debt was in
excess of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. As of January 1,
2023, the net debt position was $16.1 billion as compared to the prior year of
$2.1 billion. The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of Abiomed,
Inc. in December 2022. The debt balance at the end of 2022 was $39.7 billion
as compared to $33.8 billion in 2021. Considering recent market conditions,
the Company has re-evaluated its operating cash flows and liquidity profile
and does not foresee any significant incremental risk. The Company anticipates
that operating cash flows, the ability to raise funds from external sources,
borrowing capacity from existing committed credit facilities and access to the
commercial paper markets will continue to provide sufficient resources to fund
operating needs, including the Company's remaining balance to be paid on the
agreement to settle opioid litigation for approximately $2.7 billion and the
establishment of the $2.0 billion trust for talc related liabilities (See Note
19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details). In
addition, the Company monitors the global capital markets on an ongoing basis
and from time to time may raise capital when market conditions are favorable.
Effective beginning in fiscal 2022, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Job Act of 2017
(TCJA) requires the Company to deduct U.S. and international research and
development expenditures for tax purposes over 5 to 15 years, instead of in
the current fiscal year. As a result, in fiscal 2022, the Company experienced
an increase in annual cash tax payments of approximately $1.2 billion above
what otherwise would have been remitted to the U.S Treasury. The Company
concurrently records a deferred tax benefit for the future amortization of the
research and development (R&D) for tax purposes. The requirement to expense
R&D as incurred is unchanged for U.S. GAAP purposes and the impact to pre-tax
R&D expense is not affected by this provision.

On September 14, 2022, the Company announced that its Board of Directors
approved a share repurchase program, authorizing the Company to purchase up to
$5.0 billion of the Company's Common Stock. Share repurchases may be made at
management's discretion from time to time on the open market or through
privately negotiated transactions. The repurchase program has no time limit
and may be suspended for periods or discontinued at any time. Any shares
acquired will be available

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

32  
  
* * *

  

for general corporate purposes. The Company intends to finance the share
repurchase program through available cash. Through January 1, 2023,
approximately $2.5 billion has been repurchased under the program.

The following table summarizes the Company's material contractual obligations
and their aggregate maturities as of January 1, 2023: To satisfy these
obligations, the Company intends to use cash from operations.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Tax Legislation (TCJA)| | Debt Obligations| |
Interest on  
Debt Obligations| | | | | | Total  
2023| | $| 1,522 | | | 1,551 | | | 893 | | | | | | | 3,966 |  
2024| | 2,029 | | | 1,392 | | | 843 | | | | | | | 4,264 |  
2025| | 2,536 | | | 1,667 | | | 789 | | | | | | | 4,992 |  
2026| | -- | | | 1,996 | | | 744 | | | | | | | 2,740 |  
2027| | -- | | | 2,271 | | | 736 | | | | | | | 3,007 |  
After 2026| | -- | | | 19,562 | | | 8,772 | | | | | | | 28,334 |  
Total| | $| 6,087 | | | 28,439 | | | 12,777 | | | | | | | 47,303 |  
  
  

For tax matters, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Financing and Market Risk

The Company uses financial instruments to manage the impact of foreign
exchange rate changes on cash flows. Accordingly, the Company enters into
forward foreign exchange contracts to protect the value of certain foreign
currency assets and liabilities and to hedge future foreign currency
transactions primarily related to product costs. Gains or losses on these
contracts are offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. A
10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar from the January 1, 2023 market rates
would increase the unrealized value of the Company's forward contracts by $0.1
billion. Conversely, a 10% depreciation of the U.S. Dollar from the January 1,
2023 market rates would decrease the unrealized value of the Company's forward
contracts by $0.1 billion. In either scenario, the gain or loss on the forward
contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction,
and therefore, would have no impact on future anticipated earnings and cash
flows.

The Company hedges the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates,
and the effect on certain assets and liabilities in foreign currency, by
entering into currency swap contracts. A 1% change in the spread between U.S.
and foreign interest rates on the Company's interest rate sensitive financial
instruments would either increase or decrease the unrealized value of the
Company's swap contracts by approximately $1.7 billion. In either scenario, at
maturity, the gain or loss on the swap contract would be offset by the gain or
loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, would have no impact on
future anticipated cash flows.

The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading or
speculative purposes. Further, the Company has a policy of only entering into
contracts with parties that have at least an investment grade credit rating.
The counterparties to these contracts are major financial institutions and
there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one counterparty.
Management believes the risk of loss is remote. The Company entered into
credit support agreements (CSA) with certain derivative counterparties
establishing collateral thresholds based on respective credit ratings and
netting agreements. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional details on credit support agreements.

The Company invests in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning
securities which carry a degree of interest rate risk. The fair market value
of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest
rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted
if interest rates fall. A 1% (100 basis points) change in spread on the
Company's interest rate sensitive investments would either increase or
decrease the unrealized value of cash equivalents and current marketable
securities by less than $0.1 billion.

The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at numerous banks
worldwide. In September 2022, the Company secured a new 364-day Credit
Facility of $10 billion, which expires on September 7, 2023. In November 2022,
the Company secured an additional 364-day revolving Credit Facility of $10
billion, which has an expiration of November 21, 2023. Interest charged on
borrowings under the credit line agreement is based on either Secured
Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) Reference Rate or other applicable market rate
as allowed plus applicable margins. Commitment fees under the agreement are
not material.

Total borrowings at the end of 2022 and 2021 were $39.7 billion and $33.8
billion, respectively. The increase in borrowings was due to the acquisition
of Abiomed, Inc. In 2022, net debt (cash and current marketable securities,
net of debt) was $16.1 billion compared to net debt of $2.1 billion in 2021.
Total debt represented 34.1% of total capital (shareholders' equity and total
debt) in 2022 and 31.3% of total capital in 2021. Shareholders' equity per
share at the end of 2022 was $29.39 compared to $28.16 at year-end 2021.

A summary of borrowings can be found in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

33  
  
* * *

  

Dividends

The Company increased its dividend in 2022 for the 60th consecutive year. Cash
dividends paid were $4.45 per share in 2022 and $4.19 per share in 2021.

  

On January 3, 2023, the Board of Directors declared a regular cash dividend of
$1.13 per share, payable on March 7, 2023 to shareholders of record as of
February 21, 2023.

Other Information

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial
condition are based on the Company's consolidated financial statements that
have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires
that management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
reported for revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other related
disclosures. Actual results may or may not differ from these estimates. The
Company believes that the understanding of certain key accounting policies and
estimates are essential in achieving more insight into the Company's operating
results and financial condition. These key accounting policies include revenue
recognition, income taxes, legal and self-insurance contingencies, valuation
of long-lived assets, assumptions used to determine the amounts recorded for
pensions and other employee benefit plans and accounting for stock based
awards.

  

Revenue Recognition: The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when
obligations under the terms of a contract with the customer are satisfied;
generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of the goods to customers.
The Company's global payment terms are typically between 30 to 90 days.
Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives, trade promotions, coupons,
product returns, discounts to customers and governmental clawback provisions
are accounted for as variable consideration and recorded as a reduction in
sales.

Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct,
indirect and other market participants, as well as market conditions,
including consideration of competitor pricing. Rebates are estimated based on
contractual terms, historical experience, patient outcomes, trend analysis and
projected market conditions in the various markets served. The Company
evaluates market conditions for products or groups of products primarily
through the analysis of wholesaler and other third-party sell-through and
market research data, as well as internally generated information.

Sales returns are estimated and recorded based on historical sales and returns
information. Products that exhibit unusual sales or return patterns due to
dating, competition or other marketing matters are specifically investigated
and analyzed as part of the accounting for sales return accruals.

Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that may be returned
due to expiration, destruction in the field, or in specific areas, product
recall. The sales returns reserve is based on historical return trends by
product and by market as a percent to gross sales. In accordance with the
Company's accounting policies, the Company generally issues credit to
customers for returned goods. The Company's sales returns reserves are
accounted for in accordance with the U.S. GAAP guidance for revenue
recognition when right of return exists. Sales returns reserves are recorded
at full sales value. Sales returns in the Consumer Health and Pharmaceutical
segments are almost exclusively not resalable. Sales returns for certain
franchises in the MedTech segment are typically resalable but are not
material. The Company infrequently exchanges products from inventory for
returned products. The sales returns reserve for the total Company has been
approximately 1.0% of annual net trade sales during the fiscal years 2022,
2021 and 2020.

Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances and cooperative
advertising arrangements, are recorded in the same period as related sales.
Continuing promotional programs include coupons and volume-based sales
incentive programs. The redemption cost of consumer coupons is based on
historical redemption experience by product and value. Volume-based incentive
programs are based on the estimated sales volumes for the incentive period and
are recorded as products are sold. These arrangements are evaluated to
determine the appropriate amounts to be deferred or recorded as a reduction of
revenue. The Company also earns profit-share payments through collaborative
arrangements of certain products, which are included in sales to customers.
Profit-share payments were less than 2.0% of the total revenues in fiscal year
2022 and less than 3.0% of the total revenues in fiscal years 2021 and 2020
and are included in sales to customers.

In addition, the Company enters into collaboration arrangements that contain
multiple revenue generating activities. Amounts due from collaborative
partners for these arrangements are recognized as each activity is performed
or delivered, based on the relative selling price. Upfront fees received as
part of these arrangements are deferred and recognized over the performance
period. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
disclosures on collaborations.

Reasonably likely changes to assumptions used to calculate the accruals for
rebates, returns and promotions are not anticipated to have a material effect
on the financial statements. The Company currently discloses the impact of
changes to assumptions in the quarterly or annual filing in which there is a
material financial statement impact.

  

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

34  
  
* * *

  

Below are tables that show the progression of accrued rebates, returns,
promotions, reserve for doubtful accounts and reserve for cash discounts by
segment of business for the fiscal years ended January 1, 2023 and January 2,
2022.

  

Consumer Health Segment| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Balance at  
Beginning of Period| | Accruals| | Payments/Credits| | Balance at  
End of Period  
2022| |  | |  | |  | |  
  
Accrued rebates (1)

| | $| 287 | | | 1,052 | | | (948)| | | 391 |  
Accrued returns| | 76 | | | 83 | | | (88)| | | 71 |  
Accrued promotions| | 387 | | | 2,077 | | | (2,008)| | | 456 |  
Subtotal| | $| 750 | | | 3,212 | | | (3,044)| | | 918 |  
Reserve for doubtful accounts| | 32 | | | 5 | | | (3)| | | 34 |  
Reserve for cash discounts| | 15 | | | 210 | | | (208)| | | 17 |  
Total| | $| 797 | | | 3,427 | | | (3,255)| | | 969 |  
| | | | | | | |  
2021| |  | |  | |  | |  
  
Accrued rebates(1)

| | $| 289 | | | 893 | | | (895)| | | 287 |  
Accrued returns| | 76 | | | 136 | | | (136)| | | 76 |  
Accrued promotions| | 428 | | | 1,958 | | | (1,999)| | | 387 |  
Subtotal| | $| 793 | | | 2,987 | | | (3,030)| | | 750 |  
Reserve for doubtful accounts| | 39 | | | 0 | | | (7)| | | 32 |  
Reserve for cash discounts| | 12 | | | 213 | | | (210)| | | 15 |  
Total| | $| 844 | | | 3,200 | | | (3,247)| | | 797 |  
  
(1)Includes reserve for customer rebates of $82 million at January 1, 2023 and
$80 million at January 2, 2022, recorded as a contra asset.

Pharmaceutical Segment| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Balance at  
Beginning of Period| | Accruals| |

Payments/Credits(2)

| | Balance at  
End of Period  
2022| |  | |  | |  | |  
  
Accrued rebates (1)

| | $| 10,331 | | | 43,026 | | | (41,068)| | | 12,289 |  
Accrued returns| | 520 | | | 444 | | | (315)| | | 649 |  
Accrued promotions| | 3 | | | 5 | | | (7)| | | 1 |  
Subtotal| | $| 10,854 | | | 43,475 | | | (41,390)| | | 12,939 |  
Reserve for doubtful accounts| | 50 | | | 0 | | | (6)| | | 44 |  
Reserve for cash discounts| | 94 | | | 1,281 | | | (1,265)| | | 110 |  
Total| | $| 10,998 | | | 44,756 | | | (42,661)| | | 13,093 |  
| | | | | | | |  
2021| |  | |  | |  | |  
  
Accrued rebates (1)

| | $| 9,837 | | | 37,922 | | | (37,428)| | | 10,331 |  
Accrued returns| | 460 | | | 345 | | | (285)| | | 520 |  
Accrued promotions| | 6 | | | 13 | | | (16)| | | 3 |  
Subtotal| | $| 10,303 | | | 38,280 | | | (37,729)| | | 10,854 |  
Reserve for doubtful accounts| | 52 | | | 18 | | | (20)| | | 50 |  
Reserve for cash discounts| | 70 | | | 1,163 | | | (1,139)| | | 94 |  
Total| | $| 10,425 | | | 39,461 | | | (38,888)| | | 10,998 |  
  
(1)Includes reserve for customer rebates of $203 million at January 1, 2023
and $218 million at January 2, 2022, recorded as a contra asset.

(2)Includes prior period adjustments

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

35  
  
* * *

  

MedTech Segment| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Balance at  
Beginning of Period| | Accruals| | Payments/Credits| | Balance at  
End of Period  
2022| |  | |  | |  | |  
  
Accrued rebates(1)

| | $| 1,446 | | | 6,131 | | | (6,107)| | | 1,470 |  
Accrued returns| | 134 | | | 531 | | | (531)| | | 134 |  
Accrued promotions| | 54 | | | 102 | | | (113)| | | 43 |  
Subtotal| | $| 1,634 | | | 6,764 | | | (6,751)| | | 1,647 |  
Reserve for doubtful accounts| | 148 | | | 6 | | | (29)| | | 125 |  
Reserve for cash discounts| | 10 | | | 99 | | | (100)| | | 9 |  
Total| | $| 1,792 | | | 6,869 | | | (6,880)| | | 1,781 |  
| | | | | | | |  
2021| |  | |  | |  | |  
  
Accrued rebates(1)

| | $| 1,174 | | | 5,942 | | | (5,670)| | | 1,446 |  
Accrued returns| | 138 | | | 559 | | | (563)| | | 134 |  
Accrued promotions| | 52 | | | 140 | | | (138)| | | 54 |  
Subtotal| | $| 1,364 | | | 6,641 | | | (6,371)| | | 1,634 |  
Reserve for doubtful accounts| | 202 | | | 12 | | | (66)| | | 148 |  
Reserve for cash discounts| | 9 | | | 96 | | | (95)| | | 10 |  
Total| | $| 1,575 | | | 6,749 | | | (6,532)| | | 1,792 |  
  
(1)Includes reserve for customer rebates of $802 million at January 1, 2023
and $845 million at January 2, 2022, recorded as a contra asset.

  

Income Taxes: Income taxes are recorded based on amounts refundable or payable
for the current year and include the results of any difference between U.S.
GAAP accounting and tax reporting, recorded as deferred tax assets or
liabilities. The Company estimates deferred tax assets and liabilities based
on enacted tax regulations and rates. Future changes in tax laws and rates may
affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities.

The Company has unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions. The
Company follows U.S. GAAP, which prescribes a recognition threshold and
measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement
of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Management
believes that changes in these estimates would not have a material effect on
the Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

The Company has recorded deferred tax liabilities on all undistributed
earnings prior to December 31, 2017 from its international subsidiaries. The
Company has not provided deferred taxes on the undistributed earnings
subsequent to January 1, 2018 from certain international subsidiaries where
the earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. The Company intends
to continue to reinvest these earnings in those international operations. If
the Company decides at a later date to repatriate these earnings to the U.S.,
the Company would be required to provide for the net tax effects on these
amounts. The Company estimates that the tax effect of this repatriation would
be approximately $0.5 billion under currently enacted tax laws and regulations
and at current currency exchange rates. This amount does not include the
possible benefit of U.S. foreign tax credits, which may substantially offset
this cost.

See Note 1 and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information regarding income taxes.

Legal and Self Insurance Contingencies: The Company records accruals for
various contingencies, including legal proceedings and product liability
claims as these arise in the normal course of business. The accruals are based
on management's judgment as to the probability of losses and, where
applicable, actuarially determined estimates. The Company has self insurance
through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. In addition to accruals in
the self insurance program, claims that exceed the insurance coverage are
accrued when losses are probable and amounts can be reasonably estimated.

The Company follows the provisions of U.S. GAAP when recording litigation
related contingencies. A liability is recorded when a loss is probable and can
be reasonably estimated.

See Notes 1 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information regarding product liability and legal proceedings.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

36  
  
* * *

  

Long-Lived and Intangible Assets: The Company assesses changes, both
qualitatively and quantitatively, in economic conditions and makes assumptions
regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Company's
property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets. As these
assumptions and estimates may change over time, it may or may not be necessary
for the Company to record impairment charges.

Employee Benefit Plans: The Company sponsors various retirement and pension
plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination
indemnity plans, which cover most employees worldwide. These plans are based
on assumptions for the discount rate, expected return on plan assets,
mortality rates, expected salary increases, healthcare cost trend rates and
attrition rates. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further details on these rates.

Stock Based Compensation: The Company recognizes compensation expense
associated with the issuance of equity instruments to employees for their
services. Based on the type of equity instrument, the fair value is estimated
on the date of grant using either the Black-Scholes option valuation model or
a combination of both the Black-Scholes option valuation model and Monte Carlo
valuation model, and is expensed in the financial statements over the service
period. The input assumptions used in determining fair value are the expected
life, expected volatility, risk-free rate and expected dividend yield. For
performance share units, the fair market value is calculated for the two
component goals at the date of grant: adjusted operational earnings per share
and relative total shareholder return. The fair values for the earnings per
share goal of each performance share unit was estimated on the date of grant
using the fair market value of the shares at the time of the award, discounted
for dividends, which are not paid on the performance share units during the
vesting period. The fair value for the relative total shareholder return goal
of each performance share unit was estimated on the date of grant using the
Monte Carlo valuation model. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information.

New Accounting Pronouncements

Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for recently adopted
accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not
yet adopted as of January 1, 2023.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

37  
  
* * *

  

Economic and Market Factors

The Company is aware that its products are used in an environment where, for
more than a decade, policymakers, consumers and businesses have expressed
concerns about the rising cost of healthcare. In response to these concerns,
the Company has a long-standing policy of pricing products responsibly. For
the period 2012 \- 2022, in the U.S., the weighted average compound annual
growth rate of the Company's net price increases for healthcare products
(prescription and over-the-counter drugs, hospital and professional products)
was below the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI).

The Company operates in certain countries where the economic conditions
continue to present significant challenges. The Company continues to monitor
these situations and take appropriate actions. Inflation rates continue to
have an effect on worldwide economies and, consequently, on the way companies
operate. The Company has accounted for operations in Argentina and Venezuela
as highly inflationary, as the prior three-year cumulative inflation rate
surpassed 100%. Beginning in the fiscal second quarter of 2022, the Company
accounted for operations in Turkey as highly inflationary, as the prior three-
year cumulative inflation rate surpassed 100%. This did not have a material
impact to the Company's results in the period. In the face of increasing
costs, the Company strives to maintain its profit margins through cost
reduction programs, productivity improvements and periodic price increases.

Russia-Ukraine War

Although the long-term implications of Russia's invasion of Ukraine are
difficult to predict at this time, the financial impact of the conflict in the
fiscal 2022, including accounts receivable or inventory reserves, was not
material. As of both the fiscal years ending January 1, 2023 and January 2,
2022, the business of the Company's Ukraine subsidiaries represented less than
1% of the Company's consolidated assets and revenues. As of both the fiscal
years ending January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, the business of the
Company's Russian subsidiaries represented less than 1% of the Company's
consolidated assets and represented 1% of revenues.

In early March, the Company took steps to suspend all advertising, enrollment
in clinical trials, and any additional investment in Russia. Additionally, at
the end of March, the Company made the decision to suspend supply of personal
care products in Russia. The Company continues to supply its other products as
patients rely on many of the products for healthcare purposes.

The Company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A 1% change
in the value of the U.S. Dollar as compared to all foreign currencies in which
the Company had sales, income or expense in 2022 would have increased or
decreased the translation of foreign sales by approximately $0.5 billion and
net income by approximately $0.1 billion.

Governments around the world consider various proposals to make changes to tax
laws, which may include increasing or decreasing existing statutory tax rates.
In connection with various government initiatives, companies are required to
disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world,
which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in other countries.
A change in statutory tax rate in any country would result in the revaluation
of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities related to that
particular jurisdiction in the period in which the new tax law is enacted.
This change would result in an expense or benefit recorded to the Company's
Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The Company closely monitors these
proposals as they arise in the countries where it operates. Changes to the
statutory tax rate may occur at any time, and any related expense or benefit
recorded may be material to the fiscal quarter and year in which the law
change is enacted.

The Company faces various worldwide healthcare changes that may continue to
result in pricing pressures that include healthcare cost containment and
government legislation relating to sales, promotions, pricing and
reimbursement of healthcare products.

Changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of healthcare
products and services, including delaying medical procedures, rationing
prescription medications, reducing the frequency of physician visits and
foregoing healthcare insurance coverage, as a result of the current global
economic downturn, may continue to impact the Company's businesses.

The Company also operates in an environment increasingly hostile to
intellectual property rights. Firms have filed Abbreviated New Drug
Applications or Biosimilar Biological Product Applications with the U.S. FDA
or otherwise challenged the coverage and/or validity of the Company's patents,
seeking to market generic or biosimilar forms of many of the Company's key
pharmaceutical products prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering
those products. In the event the Company is not successful in defending the
patent claims challenged in the resulting lawsuits, generic or biosimilar
versions of the products at issue will be introduced to the market, resulting
in the potential for substantial market share and revenue losses for those
products, and which may result in a non-cash impairment charge in any
associated intangible asset. There is also a risk that one or more competitors
could launch a generic or biosimilar version of the product at issue following
regulatory approval even though one or more valid patents are in place.

Legal Proceedings

Johnson & Johnson and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various
lawsuits and claims regarding product liability, intellectual property,
commercial, employment, indemnification and other matters; governmental
investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in
the ordinary course of business.

The Company records accruals for loss contingencies associated with these
legal matters when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the
amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. As of January 1, 2023, the
Company has determined that the liabilities associated with certain litigation
matters are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The Company has accrued
for these matters and will continue to monitor each related legal issue and
adjust accruals as might be warranted based

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

38  
  
* * *

  

on new information and further developments in accordance with ASC 450-20-25.
For these and other litigation and regulatory matters discussed below for
which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, the Company is unable to
estimate the possible loss or range of loss beyond the amounts accrued.
Amounts accrued for legal contingencies often result from a complex series of
judgments about future events and uncertainties that rely heavily on estimates
and assumptions including timing of related payments. The ability to make such
estimates and judgments can be affected by various factors including, among
other things, whether damages sought in the proceedings are unsubstantiated or
indeterminate; scientific and legal discovery has not commenced or is not
complete; proceedings are in early stages; matters present legal
uncertainties; there are significant facts in dispute; procedural or
jurisdictional issues; the uncertainty and unpredictability of the number of
potential claims; ability to achieve comprehensive multi-party settlements;
complexity of related cross-claims and counterclaims; and/or there are
numerous parties involved. To the extent adverse awards, judgments or verdicts
have been rendered against the Company, the Company does not record an accrual
until a loss is determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated.

In the Company's opinion, based on its examination of these matters, its
experience to date and discussions with counsel, the ultimate outcome of legal
proceedings, net of liabilities accrued in the Company's balance sheet, is not
expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position. However, the resolution of, or increase in accruals for, one or more
of these matters in any reporting period may have a material adverse effect on
the Company's results of operations and cash flows for that period.

See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of
this report for further information regarding legal proceedings.

Common Stock

The Company's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol JNJ. As of February 10, 2023, there were 124,211 record holders of
Common Stock of the Company.

  

Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition \- Liquidity and Capital Resources - Financing and Market
Risk" of this Report; and Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
\- Financial Instruments" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Item 8 of this Report.

  

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Index to Audited Consolidated Financial Statements  
  
40

|

Consolidated Balance Sheets  
  
41

|

Consolidated Statements of Earnings  
  
42

|

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
  
43

|

Consolidated Statements of Equity  
  
44

|

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
  
46

|

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
  
103

|

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238)  
  
106

|

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
  
  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

39  
  
* * *

  

JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

At January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022

(Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) (Note 1)| | | | | | |
| | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021  
Assets| | |  
Current assets|  | |  
Cash and cash equivalents (Notes 1 and 2)| $| 14,127 | | | 14,487 |  
Marketable securities (Notes 1 and 2)| 9,392 | | | 17,121 |  
  
Accounts receivable trade, less allowances for doubtful accounts $203 (2021,
$230)

| 16,160 | | | 15,283 |  
Inventories (Notes 1 and 3)| 12,483 | | | 10,387 |  
| | |  
Prepaid expenses and other receivables| 3,132 | | | 3,701 |  
Total current assets| 55,294 | | | 60,979 |  
Property, plant and equipment, net (Notes 1 and 4)| 19,803 | | | 18,962 |  
Intangible assets, net (Notes 1 and 5)| 48,325 | | | 46,392 |  
Goodwill (Notes 1 and 5)| 45,231 | | | 35,246 |  
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8)| 9,123 | | | 10,223 |  
Other assets| 9,602 | | | 10,216 |  
Total assets| $| 187,378 | | | 182,018 |  
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity|  | |  
Current liabilities|  | |  
Loans and notes payable (Note 7)| $| 12,771 | | | 3,766 |  
Accounts payable| 11,703 | | | 11,055 |  
Accrued liabilities| 11,456 | | | 13,612 |  
Accrued rebates, returns and promotions| 14,417 | | | 12,095 |  
Accrued compensation and employee related obligations| 3,328 | | | 3,586 |  
Accrued taxes on income (Note 8)| 2,127 | | | 1,112 |  
Total current liabilities| 55,802 | | | 45,226 |  
Long-term debt (Note 7)| 26,888 | | | 29,985 |  
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8)| 6,374 | | | 7,487 |  
Employee related obligations (Notes 9 and 10)| 6,767 | | | 8,898 |  
Long-term taxes payable (Note 1)| 4,306 | | | 5,713 |  
Other liabilities| 10,437 | | | 10,686 |  
Total liabilities| 110,574 | | | 107,995 |  
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 19)| | |  
Shareholders' equity|  | |  
  
Preferred stock -- without par value (authorized and unissued 2,000,000
shares)

| -- | | | -- |  
  
Common stock -- par value $1.00 per share (Note 12) (authorized 4,320,000,000
shares; issued 3,119,843,000 shares)

| 3,120 | | | 3,120 |  
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (Note 13)| (12,967)| | |
(13,058)|  
Retained earnings| 128,345 | | | 123,060 |  
| 118,498 | | | 113,122 |  
  
Less: common stock held in treasury, at cost (Note 12) (506,246,000 shares and
490,878,000 shares)

| 41,694 | | | 39,099 |  
Total shareholders' equity| 76,804 | | | 74,023 |  
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity| $| 187,378 | | | 182,018 |  
  
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

40  
  
* * *

  

JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

(Dollars and Shares in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) (Note 1)| | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Sales to customers| $| 94,943 | | | 93,775 | | | 82,584 |  
Cost of products sold| 31,089 | | | 29,855 | | | 28,427 |  
Gross profit| 63,854 | | | 63,920 | | | 54,157 |  
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses| 24,765 | | | 24,659 | | |
22,084 |  
Research and development expense| 14,603 | | | 14,714 | | | 12,159 |  
In-process research and development (Note 5)| 783 | | | 900 | | | 181 |  
Interest income| (490)| | | (53)| | | (111)|  
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized (Note 4)| 276 | | | 183 | | | 201
|  
Other (income) expense, net| 1,871 | | | 489 | | | 2,899 |  
Restructuring (Note 20)| 321 | | | 252 | | | 247 |  
Earnings before provision for taxes on income| 21,725 | | | 22,776 | | |
16,497 |  
Provision for taxes on income (Note 8)| 3,784 | | | 1,898 | | | 1,783 |  
Net earnings| $| 17,941 | | | 20,878 | | | 14,714 |  
| | | | |  
Net earnings per share (Notes 1 and 15)| | | | |  
Basic| $| 6.83 | | | 7.93 | | | 5.59 |  
Diluted | $| 6.73 | | | 7.81 | | | 5.51 |  
Average shares outstanding (Notes 1 and 15)| | | | |  
Basic| 2,625.2 | | | 2,632.1 | | | 2,632.8 |  
Diluted| 2,663.9 | | | 2,674.0 | | | 2,670.7 |  
  
  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

41  
  
* * *

  

JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Net earnings | $| 17,941 | | | 20,878 | | | 14,714 |  
| | | | |  
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax| | | | |  
Foreign currency translation| (1,796)| | | (1,079)| | | (233)|  
| | | | |  
Securities:| | | | |  
Unrealized holding gain (loss) arising during period| (24)| | | (4)| | | 1 |  
Reclassifications to earnings| -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Net change| (24)| | | (4)| | | 1 |  
| | | | |  
Employee benefit plans:| | | | |  
Prior service credit (cost), net of amortization| (160)| | | (169)| | | 1,298
|  
Gain (loss), net of amortization| 1,854 | | | 4,318 | | | (1,135)|  
Effect of exchange rates| 111 | | | 106 | | | (229)|  
Net change| 1,805 | | | 4,255 | | | (66)|  
| | | | |  
Derivatives & hedges:| | | | |  
Unrealized gain (loss) arising during period| 454 | | | (199)| | | 1,000 |  
Reclassifications to earnings| (348)| | | (789)| | | (53)|  
Net change| 106 | | | (988)| | | 947 |  
| | | | |  
Other comprehensive income (loss)| 91 | | | 2,184 | | | 649 |  
| | | | |  
Comprehensive income | $| 18,032 | | | 23,062 | | | 15,363 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
  
| |  
---|---|---  
  
The tax effects in other comprehensive income for the fiscal years 2022, 2021
and 2020 respectively: Foreign Currency Translation; $460 million, $346
million and $536 million; Securities: $6 million and $1 million in 2022 and
2021, Employee Benefit Plans: $461 million, $1,198 million and $21 million,
Derivatives & Hedges: $30 million, $263 million and $252 million.  
  
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

42  
  
* * *

  

  

  

JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1)| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Total| | Retained  
Earnings| | Accumulated  
Other  
Comprehensive  
Income (Loss)| | Common Stock  
Issued Amount| | Treasury  
Stock  
Amount  
Balance, December 29, 2019| $| 59,471 | | | 110,659 | | | (15,891)| | | 3,120
| | | (38,417)|  
| | | | | | | | |  
Net earnings | 14,714 | | | 14,714 | | |  | |  | |  
  
Cash dividends paid ($3.98 per share)

| (10,481)| | | (10,481)| | |  | |  | |  
Employee compensation and stock option plans| 2,217 | | | (931)| | |  | |  | |
3,148 |  
Repurchase of common stock| (3,221)| | | | |  | |  | | (3,221)|  
Other| (71)| | | (71)| | | | | | |  
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax| 649 | | | | | 649 | | |  | |  
Balance, January 3, 2021| 63,278 | | | 113,890 | | | (15,242)| | | 3,120 | | |
(38,490)|  
| | | | | | | | |  
Net earnings| 20,878 | | | 20,878 | | |  | |  | |  
  
Cash dividends paid ($4.19 per share)

| (11,032)| | | (11,032)| | |  | |  | |  
Employee compensation and stock option plans| 2,171 | | | (676)| | |  | |  | |
2,847 |  
Repurchase of common stock| (3,456)| | | | |  | |  | | (3,456)|  
| | | | | | | | |  
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax| 2,184 | | |  | | 2,184 | | |  |
|  
Balance, January 2, 2022| 74,023 | | | 123,060 | | | (13,058)| | | 3,120 | | |
(39,099)|  
| | | | | | | | |  
Net earnings | 17,941 | | | 17,941 | | |  | |  | |  
  
Cash dividends paid ($4.45 per share)

| (11,682)| | | (11,682)| | |  | |  | |  
Employee compensation and stock option plans| 2,466 | | | (974)| | |  | |  | |
3,440 |  
Repurchase of common stock| (6,035)| | | | |  | |  | | (6,035)|  
| | | | | | | | |  
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax| 91 | | |  | | 91 | | |  | |  
Balance, January 1, 2023| $| 76,804 | | | 128,345 | | | (12,967)| | | 3,120 |
| | (41,694)|  
  
  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

43  
  
* * *

  

  

JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1)| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Cash flows from operating activities|  | |  | |  
Net earnings| $| 17,941 | | | 20,878 | | | 14,714 |  
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash flows from operating
activities:|  | |  | |  
Depreciation and amortization of property and intangibles| 6,970 | | | 7,390 |
| | 7,231 |  
Stock based compensation| 1,138 | | | 1,135 | | | 1,005 |  
| | | | |  
Asset write-downs| 1,216 | | | 989 | | | 233 |  
Contingent consideration reversal| -- | | | -- | | | (1,148)|  
Net gain on sale of assets/businesses| (380)| | | (617)| | | (111)|  
| | | | |  
Deferred tax provision| (1,663)| | | (2,079)| | | (1,141)|  
Credit losses and accounts receivable allowances| (17)| | | (48)| | | 63 |  
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions and
divestitures:|  | |  | |  
(Increase)/Decrease in accounts receivable| (1,290)| | | (2,402)| | | 774 |  
Increase in inventories| (2,527)| | | (1,248)| | | (265)|  
Increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities| 1,098 | | | 2,437 | | |
5,141 |  
Decrease/(Increase) in other current and non-current assets| 687 | | |
(1,964)| | | (3,704)|  
(Decrease)/Increase in other current and non-current liabilities| (1,979)| | |
(1,061)| | | 744 |  
Net cash flows from operating activities| 21,194 | | | 23,410 | | | 23,536 |  
Cash flows from investing activities|  | |  | |  
Additions to property, plant and equipment| (4,009)| | | (3,652)| | | (3,347)|  
Proceeds from the disposal of assets/businesses, net| 543 | | | 711 | | | 305
|  
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (Note 18)| (17,652)| | | (60)| | | (7,323)|  
Purchases of investments| (32,384)| | | (30,394)| | | (21,089)|  
Sales of investments| 41,609 | | | 25,006 | | | 12,137 |  
Credit support agreements activity, net| (249)| | | 214 | | | (987)|  
Other (primarily licenses and milestones)| (229)| | | (508)| | | (521)|  
Net cash used by investing activities| (12,371)| | | (8,683)| | | (20,825)|  
Cash flows from financing activities| | |  | |  
Dividends to shareholders| (11,682)| | | (11,032)| | | (10,481)|  
Repurchase of common stock| (6,035)| | | (3,456)| | | (3,221)|  
Proceeds from short-term debt| 16,134 | | | 1,997 | | | 3,391 |  
Repayment of short-term debt| (6,550)| | | (1,190)| | | (2,663)|  
Proceeds from long-term debt, net of issuance costs| 2 | | | 5 | | | 7,431 |  
Repayment of long-term debt| (2,134)| | | (1,802)| | | (1,064)|  
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options/employee withholding tax on stock
awards, net| 1,329 | | | 1,036 | | | 1,114 |  
Credit support agreements activity, net| (28)| | | 281 | | | (333)|  
Other| 93 | | | 114 | | | (294)|  
Net cash used by financing activities| (8,871)| | | (14,047)| | | (6,120)|  
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents| (312)| | |
(178)| | | 89 |  
(Decrease)/Increase in cash and cash equivalents| (360)| | | 502 | | |
(3,320)|  
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year (Note 1)| 14,487 | | | 13,985 | |
| 17,305 |  
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year (Note 1)| $| 14,127 | | | 14,487 | | |
13,985 |  
| | | | |  
Supplemental cash flow data|  | |  | |  
Cash paid during the year for:|  | |  | |  
Interest| $| 982 | | | 990 | | | 904 |  
Interest, net of amount capitalized| 933 | | | 941 | | | 841 |  
Income taxes| 5,223 | | | 4,768 | | | 4,619 |  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

44  
  
* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | |  
Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing activities|  | |  |
|  
Treasury stock issued for employee compensation and stock option plans, net of
cash proceeds/ employee withholding tax on stock awards| $| 2,114 | | | 1,811
| | | 1,937 |  
Conversion of debt| -- | | | -- | | | 27 |  
| | | | |  
Acquisitions|  | |  | |  
Fair value of assets acquired| $| 18,710 | | | 61 | | | 7,755 |  
Fair value of liabilities assumed| (1,058)| | | (1)| | | (432)|  
Net cash paid for acquisitions (Note 18)| $| 17,652 | | | 60 | | | 7,323 |  
  
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

45  
  
* * *

  

  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

  

1.Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Johnson &
Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company). Intercompany accounts and
transactions are eliminated. Columns and rows within tables may not add due to
rounding. Percentages have been calculated using actual, non-rounded figures.

Description of the Company and Business Segments

The Company has approximately 152,700 employees worldwide engaged in the
research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in
the healthcare field. The Company conducts business in virtually all countries
of the world and its primary focus is on products related to human health and
well-being.

The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer Health,
Pharmaceutical and MedTech. The Consumer Health segment includes a broad range
of products used in the Baby Care, Oral Care, Skin Health/Beauty, Over-the-
Counter pharmaceutical, Women's Health and Wound Care markets. These products
are marketed to the general public and sold online (eCommerce) and to retail
outlets and distributors throughout the world. The Pharmaceutical segment is
focused on the following therapeutic areas, including Immunology, Infectious
diseases, Neuroscience, Oncology, Pulmonary Hypertension, and Cardiovascular
and Metabolic diseases. Products in this segment are distributed directly to
retailers, wholesalers, distributors, hospitals and healthcare professionals
for prescription use. The MedTech segment includes a broad portfolio of
products used in the Orthopaedic, Surgery, Interventional Solutions
(cardiovascular and neurovascular) and Vision fields. These products are
distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers, and used principally in
the professional fields by physicians, nurses, hospitals, eye care
professionals and clinics.

In November 2021, the Company announced its intention to separate the
Company's Consumer Health business (Kenvue as the name for the planned New
Consumer Health Company), with the intention to create a new, publicly traded
company by the end of the fiscal year 2023.

  

New Accounting Standards

Recently Adopted Accounting Standards

  

There were no new material accounting standards adopted in fiscal 2022.

  

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

Not Adopted as of January 1, 2023

ASU 2022-04: Liabilities-Supplier Finance Programs (Topic 405-50) - Disclosure
of Supplier Finance Program Obligations

This update requires that a buyer in a supplier finance program disclose
additional information about the program to allow financial statement users to
better understand the effect of the programs on an entity's working capital,
liquidity, and cash flows. This update will be effective for the Company for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, except for the amendment on
roll forward information, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2023. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently
assessing the impact of this update on its disclosures and will adopt this
standard in the fiscal first quarter of 2023.

Cash Equivalents

The Company classifies all highly liquid investments with stated maturities of
three months or less from date of purchase as cash equivalents and all highly
liquid investments with stated maturities of greater than three months from
the date of purchase as current marketable securities. The Company has a
policy of making investments only with commercial institutions that have at
least an investment grade credit rating. The Company invests its cash
primarily in government securities and obligations, corporate debt securities,
money market funds and reverse repurchase agreements (RRAs).

RRAs are collateralized by deposits in the form of Government Securities and
Obligations for an amount not less than 102% of their value. The Company does
not record an asset or liability as the Company is not permitted to sell or
repledge the associated collateral. The Company has a policy that the
collateral has at least an A (or equivalent) credit rating. The Company
utilizes a third party custodian to manage the exchange of funds and ensure
that collateral received is maintained at 102% of the value of the RRAs on a
daily basis. RRAs with stated maturities of greater than three months from the
date of purchase are classified as marketable securities.

Investments

Investments classified as held to maturity investments are reported at
amortized cost and realized gains or losses are reported in earnings.
Investments classified as available-for-sale debt securities are carried at
estimated fair value with unrealized gains and

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

46  
  
* * *

  

losses recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.
Available-for-sale securities available for current operations are classified
as current assets otherwise, they are classified as long term. Management
determines the appropriate classification of its investment in debt and equity
securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluates such determination at each
balance sheet date. The Company reviews its investments for impairment and
adjusts these investments to fair value through earnings, as required.

Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. The Company utilizes the
straight-line method of depreciation over the estimated useful lives of the
assets:| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Building and building equipment|

30 years  
  
Land and leasehold improvements|

10 \- 20 years  
  
Machinery and equipment|

2 \- 13 years  
  
  

The Company capitalizes certain computer software and development costs,
included in machinery and equipment, when incurred in connection with
developing or obtaining computer software for internal use. Capitalized
software costs are amortized over the estimated useful lives of the software,
which generally range from 3 to 8 years.

The Company reviews long-lived assets to assess recoverability using
undiscounted cash flows. When certain events or changes in operating or
economic conditions occur, an impairment assessment may be performed on the
recoverability of the carrying value of these assets. If the asset is
determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference
between the asset's fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices
are not available, the Company will estimate fair value using a discounted
value of estimated future cash flows.

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when obligations under the
terms of a contract with the customer are satisfied; generally, this occurs
with the transfer of control of the goods to customers. The Company's global
payment terms are typically between 30 to 90 days. Provisions for certain
rebates, sales incentives, trade promotions, coupons, product returns,
discounts to customers and governmental clawback provisions are accounted for
as variable consideration and recorded as a reduction in sales. The liability
is recognized within Accrued Rebates, Returns, and Promotions on the
consolidated balance sheet.

Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct,
indirect and other market participants, as well as market conditions,
including consideration of competitor pricing. Rebates are estimated based on
contractual terms, historical experience, patient outcomes, trend analysis and
projected market conditions in the various markets served. A significant
portion of the liability related to rebates is from the sale of the Company's
pharmaceutical products within the U.S., primarily the Managed Care, Medicare
and Medicaid programs, which amounted to $9.6 billion and $7.7 billion as of
January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively. The Company evaluates
market conditions for products or groups of products primarily through the
analysis of wholesaler and other third-party sell-through and market research
data, as well as internally generated information.

Sales returns are estimated and recorded based on historical sales and returns
information. Products that exhibit unusual sales or return patterns due to
dating, competition or other marketing matters are specifically investigated
and analyzed as part of the accounting for sales return accruals.

Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that may be returned
due to expiration, destruction in the field, or in specific areas, product
recall. The sales returns reserve is based on historical return trends by
product and by market as a percent to gross sales. In accordance with the
Company's accounting policies, the Company generally issues credit to
customers for returned goods. The Company's sales returns reserves are
accounted for in accordance with the U.S. GAAP guidance for revenue
recognition when right of return exists. Sales returns reserves are recorded
at full sales value. Sales returns in the Consumer Health and Pharmaceutical
segments are almost exclusively not resalable. Sales returns for certain
franchises in the MedTech segment are typically resalable but are not
material. The Company infrequently exchanges products from inventory for
returned products. The sales returns reserve for the total Company has been
approximately 1.0% of annual net trade sales during each of the fiscal years
2022, 2021 and 2020.

Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances and cooperative
advertising arrangements, are recorded in the same period as related sales.
Continuing promotional programs include coupons and volume-based sales
incentive programs. The redemption cost of consumer coupons is based on
historical redemption experience by product and value. Volume-based incentive
programs are based on the estimated sales volumes for the incentive period and
are recorded as products are sold. These arrangements are evaluated to
determine the appropriate amounts to be deferred or recorded as a reduction of
revenue. The Company also earns profit-share payments through collaborative
arrangements for certain products, which are included in sales to customers.
Profit-share payments were less than 2.0% of the total revenues in fiscal year
2022 and less than 3.0% of the total revenues in fiscal years 2021 and 2020
and are included in sales to customers.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

47  
  
* * *

  

See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
disaggregation of revenue.

Shipping and Handling

Shipping and handling costs incurred were $1.1 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.0
billion in fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and are included in
selling, marketing and administrative expense. The amount of revenue received
for shipping and handling is less than 1.0% of sales to customers for all
periods presented.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value determined
by the first-in, first-out method.

Intangible Assets and Goodwill

The authoritative literature on U.S. GAAP requires that goodwill and
intangible assets with indefinite lives be assessed annually for impairment.
The Company completed its annual impairment test for 2022 in the fiscal fourth
quarter. Future impairment tests will be performed annually in the fiscal
fourth quarter, or sooner if warranted. Purchased in-process research and
development is accounted for as an indefinite lived intangible asset until the
underlying project is completed, at which point the intangible asset will be
accounted for as a definite lived intangible asset. If warranted the purchased
in-process research and development could be written off or partially impaired
depending on the underlying program.

Intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over
their useful lives, and are reviewed for impairment when warranted by economic
conditions. See Note 5 for further details on Intangible Assets and Goodwill.

Financial Instruments

As required by U.S. GAAP, all derivative instruments are recorded on the
balance sheet at fair value. Fair value is the exit price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a
market-based measurement determined using assumptions that market participants
would use in pricing an asset or liability. The authoritative literature
establishes a three-level hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in measuring
fair value, with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having the
lowest. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in
current earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on whether the
derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction, and if so, the type
of hedge transaction.

The Company documents all relationships between hedged items and derivatives.
The overall risk management strategy includes reasons for undertaking hedge
transactions and entering into derivatives. The objectives of this strategy
are: (1) minimize foreign currency exposure's impact on the Company's
financial performance; (2) protect the Company's cash flow from adverse
movements in foreign exchange rates; (3) ensure the appropriateness of
financial instruments; and (4) manage the enterprise risk associated with
financial institutions. See Note 6 for additional information on Financial
Instruments.

  

Leases

The Company determines whether an arrangement is a lease at contract inception
by establishing if the contract conveys the right to control the use of
identified property, plant, or equipment for a period of time in exchange for
consideration. Right of Use (ROU) Assets and Lease Liabilities for operating
leases are included in Other assets, Accrued liabilities, and Other
liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. The ROU Assets represent the
right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities
represent an obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Commitments under finance leases are not significant, and are included in
Property, plant and equipment, Loans and notes payable, and Long-term debt on
the consolidated balance sheet.

ROU Assets and Lease Liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date
based on the present value of all minimum lease payments over the lease term.
The Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information
available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease
payments, when the implicit rate is not readily determinable. Lease terms may
include options to extend or terminate the lease. These options are included
in the lease term when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise
that option. Operating lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
over the lease term. The Company has elected the following policy elections on
adoption: use of portfolio approach on leases of assets under master service
agreements, exclusion of short term leases on the balance sheet, and not
separating lease and non-lease components.

The Company primarily has operating lease for space, vehicles, manufacturing
equipment and data processing equipment. The ROU asset pertaining to operating
leases was $1.1 billion and $0.9 billion in fiscal years 2022 and 2021,
respectively. The lease liability was $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion in fiscal
years 2022 and 2021, respectively. The operating lease costs were $0.3 billion
in fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Cash paid for amounts
included in the measurement of lease liabilities were $0.3 billion in fiscal
years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Product Liability

Accruals for product liability claims are recorded, on an undiscounted basis,
when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information and
actuarially determined estimates where applicable. The accruals are adjusted
periodically as additional information becomes available. The Company

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

48  
  
* * *

  

accrues an estimate of the legal defense costs needed to defend each matter
when those costs are probable and can be reasonably estimated. To the extent
adverse verdicts have been rendered against the Company, the Company does not
record an accrual until a loss is determined to be probable and can be
reasonably estimated.

The Company has self insurance through a wholly-owned captive insurance
company. In addition to accruals in the self insurance program, claims that
exceed the insurance coverage are accrued when losses are probable and amounts
can be reasonably estimated.

Research and Development

Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred in accordance with
ASC 730, Research and Development. Upfront and milestone payments made to
third parties in connection with research and development collaborations are
expensed as incurred up to the point of regulatory approval. Payments made to
third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized
over the remaining useful life of the related product. Amounts capitalized for
such payments are included in other intangibles, net of accumulated
amortization.

The Company enters into collaborative arrangements, typically with other
pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, to develop and commercialize drug
candidates or intellectual property. These arrangements typically involve two
(or more) parties who are active participants in the collaboration and are
exposed to significant risks and rewards dependent on the commercial success
of the activities. These collaborations usually involve various activities by
one or more parties, including research and development, marketing and selling
and distribution. Often, these collaborations require upfront, milestone and
royalty or profit share payments, contingent upon the occurrence of certain
future events linked to the success of the asset in development. Amounts due
from collaborative partners related to development activities are generally
reflected as a reduction of research and development expense because the
performance of contract development services is not central to the Company's
operations. In general, the income statement presentation for these
collaborations is as follows:

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Nature/Type of Collaboration|  | Statement of Earnings Presentation  
Third-party sale of product & profit share payments received| | Sales to
customers  
Royalties/milestones paid to collaborative partner (post-regulatory
approval)*| | Cost of products sold  
Royalties received from collaborative partner| | Other income (expense), net  
Upfront payments & milestones paid to collaborative partner (pre-regulatory
approval)| | Research and development expense  
Research and development payments to collaborative partner| | Research and
development expense  
Research and development payments received from collaborative partner or
government entity| | Reduction of Research and development expense  
  
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
*| Milestones are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the useful life.  
  
For all years presented, there was no individual project that represented
greater than 5% of the total annual consolidated research and development
expense.

The Company has a number of products and compounds developed in collaboration
with strategic partners including XARELTO, co-developed with Bayer HealthCare
AG and IMBRUVICA, developed in collaboration and co-marketed with
Pharmacyclics LLC, an AbbVie company.

Separately, the Company has a number of licensing arrangements for products
and compounds including DARZALEX, licensed from Genmab A/S.

Advertising

Costs associated with advertising are expensed in the year incurred and are
included in selling, marketing and administrative expenses. Advertising
expenses worldwide, which comprised television, radio, print media and
Internet advertising, were $2.1 billion, $2.7 billion and $2.1 billion in
fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Income Taxes

Income taxes are recorded based on amounts refundable or payable for the
current year and include the results of any difference between U.S. GAAP
accounting and tax reporting, recorded as deferred tax assets or liabilities.
The Company estimates deferred tax assets and liabilities based on enacted tax
regulations and rates. Future changes in tax laws and rates may affect
recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future.

The Company has unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions. The
Company follows U.S. GAAP which prescribes a recognition threshold and
measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement
of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Management
believes that changes in these estimates would not have a material effect on
the Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

In 2017, the United States enacted into law new U.S. tax legislation, the U.S.
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). This law included provisions for a comprehensive
overhaul of the corporate income tax code, including a reduction of the
statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective on January 1, 2018.
The TCJA included a provision for a tax on all previously

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

49  
  
* * *

  

undistributed earnings of U.S. companies located in foreign jurisdictions.
Undistributed earnings in the form of cash and cash equivalents were taxed at
a rate of 15.5% and all other earnings were taxed at a rate of 8.0%. This tax
is payable over 8 years and will not accrue interest. These payments began in
2018 and will continue through 2025. The remaining balance at the end of the
2022 was approximately $6.1 billion, of which $4.6 billion is classified as
noncurrent and reflected as "Long-term taxes payable" on the Company's balance
sheet. The balance of this account is related to receivables from tax
authorities not expected to be received in the next 12 months.

The TCJA also includes provisions for a tax on global intangible low-taxed
income (GILTI). GILTI is described as the excess of a U.S. shareholder's total
net foreign income over a deemed return on tangible assets, as provided by the
TCJA. In January 2018, the FASB issued guidance that allows companies to elect
as an accounting policy whether to record the tax effects of GILTI in the
period the tax liability is generated (i.e., "period cost") or provide for
deferred tax assets and liabilities related to basis differences that exist
and are expected to effect the amount of GILTI inclusion in future years upon
reversal (i.e., "deferred method"). The Company has elected to account for
GILTI under the deferred method. The deferred tax amounts recorded are based
on the evaluation of temporary differences that are expected to reverse as
GILTI is incurred in future periods.

The Company has recorded deferred tax liabilities on all undistributed
earnings prior to December 31, 2017 from its international subsidiaries. The
Company has not provided deferred taxes on the undistributed earnings
subsequent to January 1, 2018 from certain international subsidiaries where
the earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. The Company intends
to continue to reinvest these earnings in those international operations. If
the Company decides at a later date to repatriate these earnings to the U.S.,
the Company would be required to provide for the net tax effects on these
amounts. The Company estimates that the tax effect of this repatriation would
be approximately $0.5 billion under currently enacted tax laws and regulations
and at current currency exchange rates. This amount does not include the
possible benefit of U.S. foreign tax credits, which may substantially offset
this cost.

See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information
regarding income taxes.

Net Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings available to
common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential
dilution that could occur if securities were exercised or converted into
common stock using the treasury stock method.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Estimates are
used when accounting for sales discounts, rebates, allowances and incentives,
product liabilities, income taxes, withholding taxes, depreciation,
amortization, employee benefits, contingencies and intangible asset and
liability valuations. Actual results may or may not differ from those
estimates.

The Company follows the provisions of U.S. GAAP when recording litigation
related contingencies. A liability is recorded when a loss is probable and can
be reasonably estimated. The best estimate of a loss within a range is
accrued; however, if no estimate in the range is better than any other, the
minimum amount is accrued.

Annual Closing Date

The Company follows the concept of a fiscal year, which ends on the Sunday
nearest to the end of the month of December. Normally each fiscal year
consists of 52 weeks, but every five or six years the fiscal year consists of
53 weeks, and therefore includes additional shipping days, as was the case in
fiscal year 2020, and will be the case again in fiscal year 2026.

Reclassification

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year
presentation.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

50  
  
* * *

  

  

2.Cash, Cash Equivalents and Current Marketable Securities

At the end of the fiscal year 2022 and 2021, cash, cash equivalents and
current marketable securities were comprised of:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022  
| | Carrying Amount| | | | Unrecognized Loss| | Estimated Fair Value| | Cash &
Cash Equivalents| | Current Marketable Securities  
Cash| | $| 4,926 | | | | | -- | | | 4,926 | | | 4,926 | | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
U.S. Reverse repurchase agreements| | 1,419 | | | | | -- | | | 1,419 | | |
1,419 | | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Corporate debt securities(1)

| | 873 | | | | | (1)| | | 872 | | | -- | | | 873 |  
Money market funds| | 5,368 | | | | | -- | | | 5,368 | | | 5,368 | | | -- |  
  
Time deposits(1)

| | 446 | | | | | -- | | | 446 | | | 446 | | | -- |  
Subtotal | | $| 13,032 | | | | | (1)| | | 13,031 | | | 12,159 | | | 873 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
U.S. Gov't Securities| | $| 9,959 | | | | | (28)| | | 9,931 | | | 1,922 | | |
8,009 |  
U.S. Gov't Agencies| | 210 | | | | | (5)| | | 205 | | | -- | | | 205 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Corporate and other debt securities| | 352 | | | | | (1)| | | 351 | | | 46 | |
| 305 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Subtotal available for sale(2)

| | $| 10,521 | | | | | (34)| | | 10,487 | | | 1,968 | | | 8,519 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities| | | | | | | |
| | $| 14,127 | | | 9,392 |  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2021  
| | Carrying Amount| | | | Unrecognized Loss| | Estimated Fair Value| | Cash &
Cash Equivalents| | Current Marketable Securities  
Cash| | $| 2,936 | | | | | -- | | | 2,936 | | | 2,936 | | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Non-U.S. Sovereign Securities(1)

| | 1,006 | | | | | -- | | | 1,006 | | | 90 | | | 916 |  
U.S. Reverse repurchase agreements| | 1,659 | | | | | -- | | | 1,659 | | |
1,659 | | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Corporate debt securities(1)

| | 3,479 | | | | | (1)| | | 3,478 | | | 200 | | | 3,279 |  
Money market funds| | 1,901 | | | | | -- | | | 1,901 | | | 1,901 | | | -- |  
  
Time deposits(1)

| | 900 | | | | | -- | | | 900 | | | 900 | | | -- |  
Subtotal | | 11,881 | | | | | (1)| | | 11,880 | | | 7,686 | | | 4,195 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
U.S. Gov't Securities| | $| 19,485 | | | | | (4)| | | 19,481 | | | 6,785 | | |
12,696 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Corporate and other debt securities| | 246 | | | | | -- | | | 246 | | | 16 | |
| 230 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Subtotal available for sale(2)

| | $| 19,731 | | | | | (4)| | | 19,727 | | | 6,801 | | | 12,926 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities| | | | | | | |
| | $| 14,487 | | | 17,121 |  
  
  

(1) Held to maturity investments are reported at amortized cost and realized
gains or losses are reported in earnings.

(2) Available for sale debt securities are reported at fair value with
unrealized gains and losses reported net of taxes in other comprehensive
income.

  

  

Fair value of government securities and obligations and corporate debt
securities were estimated using quoted broker prices and significant other
observable inputs.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

51  
  
* * *

  

The contractual maturities of the available for sale debt securities at
January 1, 2023 are as follows:| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Cost Basis| | Fair Value  
Due within one year| | $| 10,430 | | | 10,399 |  
Due after one year through five years| | 91 | | | 88 |  
Due after five years through ten years| | -- | | | -- |  
Total debt securities| | $| 10,521 | | | 10,487 |  
  
The Company invests its excess cash in both deposits with major banks
throughout the world and other high-quality money market instruments. The
Company has a policy of making investments only with commercial institutions
that have at least an investment grade credit rating.

  

3.Inventories

At the end of fiscal years 2022 and 2021, inventories were comprised of:| | |
| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021  
Raw materials and supplies| | $| 2,070 | | | 1,592 |  
Goods in process| | 1,700 | | | 2,287 |  
Finished goods| | 8,713 | | | 6,508 |  
Total inventories| | $| 12,483 | | | 10,387 |  
  
  

  

4.Property, Plant and Equipment

At the end of fiscal years 2022 and 2021, property, plant and equipment at
cost and accumulated depreciation were:| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021  
Land and land improvements| | $| 859 | | | 884 |  
Buildings and building equipment| | 12,989 | | | 12,882 |  
Machinery and equipment| | 30,431 | | | 29,774 |  
Construction in progress| | 4,974 | | | 4,139 |  
Total property, plant and equipment, gross| | $| 49,253 | | | 47,679 |  
Less accumulated depreciation| | 29,450 | | | 28,717 |  
Total property, plant and equipment, net| | $| 19,803 | | | 18,962 |  
  
  

The Company capitalizes interest expense as part of the cost of construction
of facilities and equipment. Interest expense capitalized in fiscal years
2022, 2021 and 2020 was $49 million, $49 million and $63 million,
respectively.

Depreciation expense, including the amortization of capitalized interest in
fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $2.7 billion, $2.7 billion and $2.6
billion, respectively.

Upon retirement or other disposal of property, plant and equipment, the costs
and related amounts of accumulated depreciation or amortization are eliminated
from the asset and accumulated depreciation accounts, respectively. The
difference, if any, between the net asset value and the proceeds are recorded
in earnings.

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

52  
  
* * *

  

  

5.Intangible Assets and Goodwill

At the end of fiscal years 2022 and 2021, the gross and net amounts of
intangible assets were:| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021  
Intangible assets with definite lives:| |  | |  
Patents and trademarks -- gross| | $| 44,012 | | | 38,572 |  
Less accumulated amortization| | (22,266)| | | (20,088)|  
  
Patents and trademarks -- net(1)

| | $| 21,746 | | | 18,484 |  
Customer relationships and other intangibles -- gross| | $| 22,987 | | |
23,011 |  
Less accumulated amortization| | (12,901)| | | (11,925)|  
  
Customer relationships and other intangibles -- net(2)

| | $| 10,086 | | | 11,086 |  
Intangible assets with indefinite lives:| |  | |  
Trademarks| | $| 6,807 | | | 6,985 |  
  
Purchased in-process research and development(3)

| | 9,686 | | | 9,837 |  
Total intangible assets with indefinite lives| | $| 16,493 | | | 16,822 |  
Total intangible assets -- net| | $| 48,325 | | | 46,392 |  
  
(1)The change was primarily related to the intangible assets acquired with the
acquisition of Abiomed, Inc. which was partially offset by amortization
expense of previously existing intangible assets and the result of currency
translation effects.

(2)The majority is comprised of customer relationships

(3)The reduction was primarily related to an intangible asset impairment
charge of approximately $0.8 billion recorded in the fiscal year 2022 related
to an in-process research and development asset, bermekimab (JnJ-77474462), an
investigational drug for the treatment of Atopic Dermatitis (AD) and
Hidradenitis Suppurativa (HS) acquired with the acquisition of XBiotech, Inc.
in the fiscal year 2020. Additional information regarding efficacy of the AD
and HS indications became available which led the Company to the decision to
terminate the development of bermekimab for AD and HS. An additional reduction
of $0.7 billion was driven by Monarch assets that reached commercialization
and are now classified as having definite lives. This was partially offset by
approximately $1.1 billion of IPR&D acquired with Abiomed, Inc.

  

  

Goodwill as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, as allocated by segment of
business, was as follows:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Consumer Health| | Pharmaceutical| | MedTech| | Total  
Goodwill at January 3, 2021| | $| 10,336 | | | 11,009 | | | 15,048 | | |
36,393 |  
Goodwill, related to acquisitions| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Goodwill, related to divestitures| | (9)| | | -- | | | -- | | | (9)|  
Currency translation/other| | (517)| | | (429)| | | (192)| | | (1,138)|  
Goodwill at January 2, 2022| | $| 9,810 | | | 10,580 | | | 14,856 | | | 35,246
|  
Goodwill, related to acquisitions| | -- | | | -- | | | 11,056 | | | 11,056 |  
Goodwill, related to divestitures| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Currency translation/other| | (626)| | | (396)| | | (49)| | | (1,071)|  
Goodwill at January 1, 2023| | $| 9,184 | | | 10,184 | | | 25,863 | | | 45,231
|  
  
  

  

The weighted average amortization period for patents and trademarks is 12
years. The weighted average amortization period for customer relationships and
other intangible assets is 21 years. The amortization expense of amortizable
assets included in Cost of products sold was $4.3 billion, $4.7 billion and
$4.7 billion before tax, for the fiscal years ended January 1, 2023, January
2, 2022 and January 3, 2021, respectively. Intangible asset write-downs are
included in Other (income) expense, net.

  

The estimated amortization expense for approved products, before tax, for the
five succeeding years is approximately:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
(Dollars in Millions)

| | | | | |  
2023| | 2024| | 2025| | 2026| | 2027  
$4,600| | 4,400| | 3,600| | 3,000| | 2,400  
  
  

See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details
related to acquisitions and divestitures.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

53  
  
* * *

  

  

  

  

6.Fair Value Measurements

The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to manage its exposure to
the variability of cash flows, primarily related to the foreign exchange rate
changes of future intercompany products and third-party purchases of materials
denominated in a foreign currency. The Company uses cross currency interest
rate swaps to manage currency risk primarily related to borrowings. Both types
of derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges.

Additionally, the Company primarily uses interest rate swaps as an instrument
to manage interest rate risk related to fixed rate borrowings. These
derivatives are designated as fair value hedges. The Company uses cross
currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts designated
as net investment hedges. Additionally, the Company uses forward foreign
exchange contracts to offset its exposure to certain foreign currency assets
and liabilities. These forward foreign exchange contracts are not designated
as hedges and therefore, changes in the fair values of these derivatives are
recognized in earnings, thereby offsetting the current earnings effect of the
related foreign currency assets and liabilities.

In the fiscal fourth quarter of 2022, the Company entered into forward
starting interest rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $2.4 billion in
contemplation of hedging interest rate risk associated with long-term
financing for the Consumer Health segment separation. These forward starting
interest rate swaps are not designated as hedges and therefore, changes in the
fair values of these derivatives are recognized in earnings. At the end of the
fiscal year 2022, the changes in fair value was not material and therefore not
included in the table below.

The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading
or speculative purposes, or that contain credit risk related contingent
features. The Company maintains credit support agreements (CSA) with certain
derivative counterparties establishing collateral thresholds based on
respective credit ratings and netting agreements. As of January 1, 2023, the
total amount of cash collateral paid by the Company under the CSA amounted to
$0.8 billion net, related to net investment and cash flow hedges. On an
ongoing basis, the Company monitors counter-party credit ratings. The Company
considers credit non-performance risk to be low, because the Company primarily
enters into agreements with commercial institutions that have at least an
investment grade credit rating. Refer to the table on significant financial
assets and liabilities measured at fair value contained in this footnote for
receivables and payables with these commercial institutions. As of January 1,
2023, the Company had notional amounts outstanding for forward foreign
exchange contracts, cross currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps
of $43.3 billion, $36.2 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively. As of January
2, 2022, the Company had notional amounts outstanding for forward foreign
exchange contracts, cross currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps
of $45.8 billion, $37.4 billion and $10.0 billion, respectively.

All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current
earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on whether the derivative is
designated as part of a hedge transaction, and if so, the type of hedge
transaction.

The designation as a cash flow hedge is made at the entrance date of the
derivative contract. At inception, all derivatives are expected to be highly
effective. Foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges are
accounted for under the forward method and all gains/losses associated with
these contracts will be recognized in the income statement when the hedged
item impacts earnings. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are
recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until the underlying
transaction affects earnings, and are then reclassified to earnings in the
same account as the hedged transaction.

Gains and losses associated with interest rate swaps and changes in fair value
of hedged debt attributable to changes in interest rates are recorded to
interest expense in the period in which they occur. Gains and losses on net
investment hedges are accounted through the currency translation account
within accumulated other comprehensive income. The portion excluded from
effectiveness testing is recorded through interest (income) expense using the
spot method. On an ongoing basis, the Company assesses whether each derivative
continues to be highly effective in offsetting changes of hedged items. If and
when a derivative is no longer expected to be highly effective, hedge
accounting is discontinued.

The Company designated its Euro denominated notes issued in May 2016 with due
dates ranging from 2022 to 2035 as a net investment hedge of the Company's
investments in certain of its international subsidiaries that use the Euro as
their functional currency in order to reduce the volatility caused by changes
in exchange rates.

As of January 1, 2023, the balance of deferred net loss on derivatives
included in accumulated other comprehensive income was $230 million after-tax.
For additional information, see the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income and Note 13\. The Company expects that substantially all of the amounts
related to forward foreign exchange contracts will be reclassified into
earnings over the next 12 months as a result of transactions that are expected
to occur over that period. The maximum length of time over which the Company
is hedging transaction exposure is 18 months, excluding interest rate
contracts and net investment hedges. The amount ultimately realized in
earnings may differ as foreign exchange rates change. Realized gains and
losses are ultimately determined by actual exchange rates at maturity of the
derivative.

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

54  
  
* * *

  

The following table is a summary of the activity related to derivatives and
hedges for the fiscal years ended January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, net of
tax:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  
| January 1, 2023| January 2, 2022  
(Dollars in Millions)| Sales| Cost of Products Sold| R&D Expense| Interest
(Income) Expense| Other (Income) Expense| Sales| Cost of Products Sold| R&D
Expense| Interest (Income) Expense| Other (Income) Expense  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
The effects of fair value, net investment and cash flow hedging:| | | | | | |
| | |  
Gain (Loss) on fair value hedging relationship:| | | | | | | | | |  
Interest rate swaps contracts:| | | | | | | | | |  
Hedged items| $| -- | | -- | | -- | | (1,098)| | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | |
(109)| | -- |  
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments| -- | | -- | | -- | | 1,098 | |
-- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 109 | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Gain (Loss) on net investment hedging relationship:| | | | | | | | | |  
Cross currency interest rate swaps contracts:| | | | | | | | | |  
Amount of gain or (loss) recognized in income on derivative amount excluded
from effectiveness testing| $| -- | | -- | | -- | | 140 | | -- | | -- | | -- |
| -- | | 174 | | -- |  
Amount of gain or (loss) recognized in AOCI| -- | | -- | | -- | | 140 | | -- |
| -- | | -- | | -- | | 174 | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Gain (Loss) on cash flow hedging relationship:| | | | | | | | | |  
Forward foreign exchange contracts:| | | | | | | | | |  
Amount of gain or (loss) reclassified from AOCI into income| (72)| | (271)| |
149 | | -- | | (23)| | 17 | | 119 | | 30 | | -- | | 47 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Amount of gain or (loss) recognized in AOCI| 5 | | 319 | | 61 | | -- | |
(113)| | (94)| | (557)| | 123 | | -- | | 146 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Cross currency interest rate swaps contracts:| | | | | | | | | |  
Amount of gain or (loss) reclassified from AOCI into income| -- | | -- | | --
| | 425 | | -- | | -- | | -- | | -- | | 402 | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Amount of gain or (loss) recognized in AOCI| $| -- | | -- | | -- | | 42 | | --
| | -- | | -- | | -- | | 9 | | -- |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
  

  

As of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, the following amounts were recorded
on the consolidated balance sheet related to cumulative basis adjustment for
fair value hedges

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Line item in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in which the hedged item is
included| | Carrying Amount of the Hedged Liability| | Cumulative Amount of
Fair Value Hedging Adjustment Included in the Carrying Amount of the Hedged
Liability  
| | | | | | | |  
(Dollars in Millions)| | January 1, 2023| | January 2, 2022| | January 1,
2023| | January 2, 2022  
| | | | | | | |  
Long-term Debt| | $| 8,665 | | | $| 9,793 | | | $| (1,435)| | | $| (142)|  
| | | | | | | |  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

55  
  
* * *

  

The following table is the effect of derivatives not designated as hedging
instrument for the fiscal years ended January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022:| |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Location of Gain /(Loss) Recognized in Income on
Derivative| | Gain/(Loss)  
Recognized In  
Income on Derivative  
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments| | | | January 1, 2023| |
January 2, 2022  
Foreign Exchange Contracts| | Other (income) expense| | $| 94 | | | (70)|  
  
  

  

The following table is the effect of net investment hedges for the fiscal
years ended January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Gain/(Loss)  
Recognized In  
Accumulated OCI| | Location of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income Into Income| | Gain/(Loss) Reclassified From  
Accumulated OCI  
Into Income  
(Dollars in Millions)| | January 1, 2023| | January 2, 2022| | | | January 1,
2023| | January 2, 2022  
Debt| | $| 197 | | | 387 | | | Interest (income) expense  
| | -- | | | -- |  
Cross Currency interest rate swaps| | $| 766 | | | 548 | | | Interest (income)
expense| | -- | | | -- |  
  
The Company holds equity investments with readily determinable fair values and
equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The Company
measures equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values
at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from
observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a
similar investment of the same issuer.

The following table is a summary of the activity related to equity investments
for the fiscal years ended January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022:| | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | January 2, 2022| | | | | | January 1, 2023  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Carrying Value| |

Changes in Fair Value Reflected in Net Income (1)

| |

Sales/ Purchases/Other(2)

| | Carrying Value| | Non Current Other Assets  
Equity Investments with readily determinable value| | $| 1,884 | | | (538)| |
| (770)| | | 576 | | | 576 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Investments without readily determinable value| | $| 500 | | | 91 | | |
107 | | | 698 | | | 698 |  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | January 3, 2021| | | | | | January 2, 2022  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Carrying Value| |

Changes in Fair Value Reflected in Net Income (1)

| |

Sales/ Purchases/Other(2)

| | Carrying Value| | Non Current Other Assets  
Equity Investments with readily determinable value| | $| 1,481 | | | 198 | | |
205 | | | 1,884 | | | 1,884 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Equity Investments without readily determinable value| | $| 738 | | | 394 | |
| (632)| | | 500 | | | 500 |  
  
  

(1) Recorded in Other Income/Expense

(2) Other includes impact of currency

  

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

56  
  
* * *

  

For the fiscal years ended January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022 for equity
investments without readily determinable market values, $51 million and $28
million, respectively, of the changes in fair value reflected in net income
were the result of impairments. There were offsetting impacts of $142 million
and $422 million, respectively, of changes in the fair value reflected in net
income due to changes in observable prices and gains on the disposal of
investments. The impact in fiscal year 2021, was driven by the gain on
disposal of the Grail investment. In fiscal year 2022, the Company sold all of
its equity investments in argenx SE for proceeds of $0.6 billion.

  

Fair value is the exit price that would be received to sell an asset or paid
to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement determined
using assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or
liability. In accordance with ASC 820, a three-level hierarchy to prioritize
the inputs used in measuring fair value. The levels within the hierarchy are
described below with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having
the lowest.

  

The fair value of a derivative financial instrument (i.e., forward foreign
exchange contracts, interest rate contracts) is the aggregation by currency of
all future cash flows discounted to its present value at the prevailing market
interest rates and subsequently converted to the U.S. Dollar at the current
spot foreign exchange rate. The Company does not believe that fair values of
these derivative instruments materially differ from the amounts that could be
realized upon settlement or maturity, or that the changes in fair value will
have a material effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows or
financial position. The Company also holds equity investments which are
classified as Level 1 and debt securities which are classified as Level 2. The
Company holds acquisition related contingent liabilities based upon certain
regulatory and commercial events, which are classified as Level 3, whose
values are determined using discounted cash flow methodologies or similar
techniques for which the determination of fair value requires significant
judgment or estimations.

  

The following three levels of inputs are used to measure fair value:

Level 1 -- Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and
liabilities.

Level 2 -- Significant other observable inputs.

Level 3 -- Significant unobservable inputs.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

57  
  
* * *

  

The Company's significant financial assets and liabilities measured at fair
value as of the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022 were as
follows:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | 2022| | 2021  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Level 1| | Level 2| | Level 3| | Total| |

Total (1)  
  
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Assets:| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Forward foreign exchange contracts | | $| -- | | | 629 | | | -- | | | 629 | |
| 540 |  
  
Interest rate contracts (2)

| | -- | | | 1,534 | | | -- | | | 1,534 | | | 796 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Total| | $| -- | | | 2,163 | | | -- | | | 2,163 | | | 1,336 |  
Liabilities:| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Forward foreign exchange contracts| | -- | | | 511 | | | -- | | | 511 | | |
881 |  
  
Interest rate contracts (2)

| | -- | | | 2,778 | | | -- | | | 2,778 | | | 979 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Total| | $| -- | | | 3,289 | | | -- | | | 3,289 | | | 1,860 |  
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Assets:| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Forward foreign exchange contracts | | $| -- | | | 38 | | | -- | | | 38 | | |
24 |  
Liabilities:| |  | |  | |  | |  | |  
Forward foreign exchange contracts| | -- | | | 68 | | | -- | | | 68 | | | 28 |  
Available For Sale Other Investments:| | | | | | | | | |  
  
Equity investments(3)

| | 576 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 576 | | | 1,884 |  
  
Debt securities(4)

| | -- | | | 10,487 | | | -- | | | 10,487 | | | 19,727 |  
Other Liabilities| | | | | | | | | |  
  
Contingent Consideration(5)

| | $| | | | 1,120 | | | 1,120 | | | 533 |  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Gross to Net Derivative Reconciliation| | 2022| | 2021  
(Dollars in Millions)| | | |  
Total Gross Assets| | $| 2,201 | | | 1,360 |  
Credit Support Agreement (CSA)| | (2,176)| | | (1,285)|  
Total Net Asset| | 25 | | | 75 |  
| | | |  
Total Gross Liabilities| | 3,357 | | | 1,888 |  
Credit Support Agreement (CSA)| | (3,023)| | | (1,855)|  
Total Net Liabilities| | $| 334 | | | 33 |  
| | | |  
  
  

Summarized information about changes in liabilities for contingent
consideration is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | 2022| 2021| 2020  
(Dollars in Millions)| | | |  
Beginning Balance| | $| 533 | | 633 | | 1,715 |  
  
Changes in estimated fair value (6)

| | (194)| | (52)| | (1,089)|  
  
Additions (7)

| | 792 | | -- | | 106 |  
Payments| | (11)| | (48)| | (99)|  
Ending Balance| | $| 1,120 | | 533 | | 633 |  
| | | |  
  
  

(1)2021 assets and liabilities are all classified as Level 2 with the
exception of equity investments of $1,884 million, which are classified as
Level 1 and contingent consideration of $533 million, classified as Level 3.

(2)Includes cross currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

58  
  
* * *

  

(3)Classified as non-current other assets.

(4)Classified as cash equivalents and current marketable securities.

(5)Includes $1,116 million, $520 million and $594 million, classified as non-
current other liabilities as of January 1, 2023, January 2, 2022 and January
3, 2021, respectively. Includes $4 million, $13 million and $39 million
classified as current liabilities as of January 1, 2023, January 2, 2022 and
January 3, 2021, respectively.

(6)Ongoing fair value adjustment amounts are recorded primarily in Research
and Development expense. The Company recorded a contingent consideration
reversal of $1,148 million in 2020 related to the timing of certain
developmental milestones associated with the Auris Health acquisition. The
reversal of the contingent consideration was recorded in Other income and
expense.

(7)In fiscal year 2022, the Company recorded $704 million of contingent
consideration related to Abiomed.

  

See Notes 2 and 7 for financial assets and liabilities held at carrying amount
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

59  
  
* * *

  

7.Borrowings

The components of long-term debt are as follows:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022|

| Effective Rate %|

| 2021|

| Effective Rate %|  
  
0.250% Notes due 2022 (1B Euro 1.1311)(3)

  

| | $| -- | | | -- | %| | $| 1,131 | |

(3)

| 0.26 | %|  
  
2.25% Notes due 2022

| | -- | | | -- | | | 1,000 | | | 2.31 | |  
  
6.73% Debentures due 2023

| | 250 | |

| 6.73 | |

| 250 | |

| 6.73 | |  
  
3.375% Notes due 2023

| | 801 | | | 3.17 | | | 802 | | | 3.18 | |  
  
2.05% Notes due 2023

| | 500 | | | 2.09 | | | 499 | | | 2.09 | |  
  
0.650% Notes due 2024

(750MM Euro 1.0651)(2)/(750MM Euro 1.1311)(3)

| | 792 | |

(2)

| 0.68 | | | 847 | |

(3)

| 0.68 | |  
  
5.50% Notes due 2024

(500MM 1.2037 GBP )(2)/(500MM GBP 1.3485)(3)

| | 600 | |

(2)

| 6.75 | |

| 672 | |

(3)

| 6.75 | |  
  
2.625% Notes due 2025

| | 749 | | | 2.63 | | | 749 | | | 2.63 | |  
  
0.55% Notes due 2025

| | 918 | | | 0.57 | | | 983 | | | 0.57 | |  
  
2.45% Notes due 2026

| | 1,996 | | | 2.47 | | | 1,995 | | | 2.47 | |  
  
2.95% Notes due 2027

| | 877 | | | 2.96 | | | 978 | | | 2.96 | |  
  
0.95% Notes due 2027

| | 1,394 | | | 0.96 | | | 1,478 | | | 0.96 | |  
  
1.150% Notes due 2028 (750MM Euro 1.0651)(2)/(750MM Euro 1.1311)(3)

| | 794 | |

(2)

| 1.21 | | | 843 | |

(3)

| 1.21 | |  
  
2.90% Notes due 2028

| | 1,496 | | | 2.91 | | | 1,495 | | | 2.91 | |  
  
6.95% Notes due 2029

| | 298 | |

| 7.14 | |

| 298 | |

| 7.14 | |  
  
1.30% Notes due 2030

| | 1,607 | | | 1.30 | | | 1,723 | | | 1.30 | |  
  
4.95% Debentures due 2033

| | 498 | |

| 4.95 | |

| 498 | |

| 4.95 | |  
  
4.375% Notes due 2033

| | 854 | | | 4.24 | | | 854 | | | 4.24 | |  
  
1.650% Notes due 2035 (1.5B Euro 1.0651)(2)/(1.5B Euro 1.1311)(3)

| | 1,591 | |

(2)

| 1.68 | | | 1,683 | |

(3)

| 1.68 | |  
  
3.55% Notes due 2036

| | 842 | | | 3.59 | | | 974 | | | 3.59 | |  
  
5.95% Notes due 2037

| | 993 | |

| 5.99 | |

| 993 | |

| 5.99 | |  
  
3.625% Notes due 2037

| | 1,336 | | | 3.64 | | | 1,475 | | | 3.64 | |  
  
5.85% Debentures due 2038

| | 697 | |

| 5.85 | |

| 696 | |

| 5.85 | |  
  
3.400% Notes due 2038

| | 992 | | | 3.42 | | | 992 | | | 3.42 | |  
  
4.50% Debentures due 2040

| | 540 | |

| 4.63 | |

| 540 | |

| 4.63 | |  
  
2.10% Notes due 2040

| | 828 | | | 2.14 | | | 974 | | | 2.14 | |  
  
4.85% Notes due 2041

| | 297 | | | 4.89 | | | 297 | | | 4.89 | |  
  
4.50% Notes due 2043

| | 496 | | | 4.52 | | | 496 | | | 4.52 | |  
  
3.70% Notes due 2046

| | 1,976 | | | 3.74 | | | 1,975 | | | 3.74 | |  
  
3.75% Notes due 2047

| | 812 | | | 3.76 | | | 971 | | | 3.76 | |  
  
3.500% Notes due 2048

| | 743 | | | 3.52 | | | 743 | | | 3.52 | |  
  
2.250% Notes due 2050

| | 808 | | | 2.29 | | | 983 | | | 2.29 | |  
  
2.450% Notes due 2060

| | 1,055 | | | 2.49 | | | 1,222 | | | 2.49 | |  
Other| | 9 | |

| -- | |

| 7 | |

| -- | |  
Subtotal| | 28,439 | |

(4)

| 3.04 | %|

(1)

| 32,116 | |

(4)

| 2.89 | %|

(1)  
  
Less current portion| | 1,551 | |

|  |

| 2,131 | |

|  |  
Total long-term debt| | $| 26,888 | |

|  |

| $| 29,985 | |

|  |  
  
  

(1)Weighted average effective rate.

(2)Translation rate at January 1, 2023.

(3)Translation rate at January 2, 2022.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

60  
  
* * *

  

(4)The excess of the carrying value over the fair value of debt was $1.6
billion at the end of fiscal year 2022 and the excess of the fair value over
the carrying value of debt was $3.2 billion at the end of fiscal year 2021.

  

Fair value of the long-term debt was estimated using market prices, which were
corroborated by quoted broker prices and significant other observable inputs.

The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at numerous banks
worldwide. In September 2022, the Company secured a new 364-day Credit
Facility of $10 billion, which expires on September 7, 2023. In November 2022,
the Company secured an additional 364-day Credit Facility of $10 billion,
which expires on November 21, 2023. Interest charged on borrowings under the
credit line agreement is based on either the Term SOFR Reference Rate or other
applicable market rates as allowed under the terms of the agreement, plus
applicable margins. Commitment fees under the agreements are not material.

Throughout fiscal years 2022 and 2021, the Company continued to have access to
liquidity through the commercial paper market. Short-term borrowings and the
current portion of long-term debt amounted to approximately $12.8 billion and
$3.8 billion at the end of fiscal years 2022 and 2021, respectively. The
current portion of the long term debt was $1.6 billion and $2.1 billion in
2022 and 2021, respectively, and the remainder is commercial paper and local
borrowing by international subsidiaries.

The current debt balance as of January 1, 2023 includes $11.2 billion of
commercial paper which has a weighted average interest rate of 4.23% and a
weighted average maturity of approximately two months.

  

Aggregate maturities of long-term debt obligations commencing in 2023 are:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
(Dollars in Millions)

| | | | | | | |  
2023| | 2024| | 2025| | 2026| | 2027| | After 2026  
$1,551| | 1,392| | 1,667| | 1,996| | 2,271| | 19,562  
  
  

  

8.Income Taxes

The provision for taxes on income consists of:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| 2022| | 2021| | 2020|  
Currently payable:| | | | | |  
U.S. taxes| $| 2,378 | | | 1,525 | | | 1,026 | |  
| | | | | |  
International taxes| 3,069 | | | 2,452 | | | 1,898 | |  
Total currently payable| 5,447 | | | 3,977 | | | 2,924 | |  
Deferred:| | | | | |  
U.S. taxes| (2,081)| | | 583 | | | (76)| |  
| | | | | |  
International taxes| 418 | | | (2,662)| | | (1,065)| |  
Total deferred| (1,663)| | | (2,079)| | | (1,141)| |  
Provision for taxes on income| $| 3,784 | | | 1,898 | | | 1,783 | |  
  
  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

61  
  
* * *

  

A comparison of income tax expense at the U.S. statutory rate of 21% in fiscal
years 2022, 2021 and 2020, to the Company's effective tax rate is as follows:|
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020|  
U.S. | | $| 5,369 | | | 6,110 | | | 4,312 | |  
International| | 16,356 | | | 16,666 | | | 12,185 | |  
Earnings before taxes on income:| | $| 21,725 | | | 22,776 | | | 16,497 | |  
Tax rates:| | | | | | |  
U.S. statutory rate| | 21.0 | %| | 21.0 | | | 21.0 | |  
  
International operations (1)

| | (4.5)| | | (16.4)| | | (9.9)| |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
Consumer health separation| | 2.2 | | | -- | | | -- | |  
  
U.S. taxes on international income (2)

| | (1.9)| | | 6.7 | | | 2.7 | |  
Tax benefits from loss on capital assets| | -- | | | (1.3)| | | (1.2)| |  
Tax benefits on share-based compensation| | (1.3)| | | (1.0)| | | (1.5)| |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
  
All other (3)

| | 1.9 | | | (0.7)| | | (0.3)| |  
Effective Rate| | 17.4 | %| | 8.3 | | | 10.8 | |  
  
  

(1) For all periods presented the Company has subsidiaries operating in Puerto
Rico under various tax incentives. International operations reflect the
impacts of operations in jurisdictions with statutory tax rates different than
the U.S., particularly Ireland, Switzerland and Puerto Rico, which is a
favorable impact on the effective tax rate as compared with the U.S. statutory
rate. The 2021 amounts include the reorganization of international
subsidiaries; the 2020 amounts include the impact of the new tax legislation
enactment in Switzerland, both of which are further described below.

(2)  Includes the impact of the GILTI tax, the Foreign-Derived Intangible
Income deduction and other foreign income that is taxable under the U.S. tax
code. The 2022 amount includes the impact of certain provisions of the 2017
TCJA that became effective in fiscal 2022. The 2021 amounts include the
reorganization of international subsidiaries; the 2020 amounts include the
impact of the new tax legislation enactment in Switzerland, both of which are
further described below.

(3) Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current
year presentation.

  

The fiscal year 2022 effective tax rate increased 9.1% as compared to the
fiscal year 2021 effective tax rate. As part of the planned separation of the
Company's Consumer Health business, the Company has recognized approximately
$0.5 billion in net incremental tax costs in fiscal year 2022, which increased
the 2022 effective tax rate by approximately 2.2%.

  

Additionally, the Company recorded certain non-recurring favorable tax items
in fiscal year 2021 which resulted in an unfavorable impact to the Company's
fiscal 2022 effective tax rate when compared to the prior fiscal year. These
items are described below. The Company's 2022 tax rate also benefited from
certain provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 that became effective
in fiscal 2022, the impairment of bermekimab for AD and HS IPR&D (for further
information see Note 5 of the 2022 10-K Consolidated Financial Statements) and
changes in the fair value of securities in the Company's investment portfolio,
both recorded at the U.S. statutory rate.

  

The fiscal year 2021 tax rate decreased by 2.5% compared to the fiscal year
2020 tax rate, which was primarily driven by the following items. In fiscal
year 2021, the Company reorganized the ownership structure of certain wholly-
owned international subsidiaries. As part of this reorganization, the Company
increased the tax basis of certain assets to fair value in accordance with
applicable local regulations. The net impact of this restructuring was
approximately $0.6 billion net benefit or 2.7% benefit to the Company's annual
effective tax rate, comprised of the following items:

  

•approximately $2.3 billion of local deferred tax assets to record the
remeasurement of the tax basis of these assets to fair value, this benefit has
been reflected as "International Operations" on the Company's effective tax
rate reconciliation.

•approximately $1.7 billion of U.S. deferred tax expense relating to the GILTI
deferred tax liability resulting from the remeasurement of these deferred tax
assets. This expense has been reflected as "U.S. tax on international income"
on the Company's effective tax rate reconciliation.

  

Also, in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2021, the Company recognized a loss on
certain U.S. affiliates related to the previously impaired book value of
certain intangibles, which reduced the 2021 tax rate by approximately 1.3%
which is reflected as a "Tax benefits from loss on capital assets" on the
effective tax rate reconciliation. Additionally other fiscal 2021 impacts to
the rate were primarily driven by litigation and acquisition related items as
follows:

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

62  
  
* * *

  

•the Company accrued additional legal expenses, of approximately $1.6 billion
for talc at an effective tax rate of 23.5% and $0.8 billion for Risperdal
Gynecomastia settlements at an effective tax rate of 16.4% (See Note 19 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more details).

•the Company recorded a partial IPR&D charge of $0.9 billion for the Ottava
intangible asset (acquired with the Auris Health acquisition in 2019) at an
effective rate of 22.4%.

  

In fiscal year 2019, Switzerland enacted the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV
Financing (TRAF) and became effective for fiscal year 2020. The Federal
transitional provisions of TRAF allow companies, under certain conditions, to
adjust the tax basis in certain assets to fair value (i.e., "step-up") to be
depreciated and amortized resulting in an incremental Swiss tax deduction over
the transitional period.

  

TRAF also provides for parameters which enable the Swiss cantons to establish
localized tax rates and regulations for companies. The new cantonal tax
parameters include favorable tax benefits for patents and additional research
and development tax deductions. The cantonal transitional provisions of TRAF
allowed companies to elect either 1) tax basis step-up similar to the Federal
transition benefit or 2) alternative statutory tax rate for a period not to
exceed 5 years. The Company has operations located in various Swiss cantons.

  

During the fiscal year 2020, the final canton where the Company maintains
significant operations enacted TRAF legislation. Additionally, the Company
received rulings from the Swiss Federal and cantonal tax authorities in the
remaining jurisdictions where it has significant operations. These rulings
resulted in the Company revising its estimate on the tax basis adjustment
(i.e., "step-up") for its assets and as a result, the Company recorded
additional deferred tax benefits in 2020. The Company recognized a net benefit
in the fiscal year 2020 for Swiss Tax Reform of approximately $0.4 billion or
2.6% benefit to the Company's annual effective tax rate, comprised of the
following items:

  

•approximately $0.3 billion tax benefit relating to the remeasurement of Swiss
deferred tax assets and liabilities for the change in the Federal and cantonal
tax rates, where enactment occurred in the fiscal year 2020; this benefit has
been reflected as "International Operations" on the Company's effective tax
rate reconciliation.

•a $450 million deferred tax asset related to the estimated value of a Federal
tax basis step-up of the Company's Swiss subsidiaries' assets as described
above; this benefit has been reflected as "International Operations" on the
Company's effective tax rate reconciliation.

•approximately $0.3 billion of U.S. deferred tax expense relating to the GILTI
deferred tax liability resulting from the remeasurement of the Swiss deferred
tax assets and liabilities in the fiscal year 2020. This benefit has been
reflected as "U.S. tax on international income" on the Company's effective tax
rate reconciliation.

  

The Company does not expect to receive future rulings regarding the
transitional provisions of TRAF.

  

Also, in the fiscal year 2020, the Company recognized a capital loss on
certain U.S. affiliates related to the previously impaired book value of
certain intangibles, which reduced the 2020 tax rate by approximately 1.2%
which is reflected as a "Tax benefits from loss on capital assets" on the
effective tax rate reconciliation. In addition, in the fiscal year 2020, the
Company had lower income in higher tax jurisdictions, primarily driven by:

  

•the impact of the accrual of litigation costs related to talc for $4.0
billion which reduced the U.S. earnings before taxes at an effective tax rate
of 23.5%;

•the accrual of additional legal costs, including an additional $1.0 billion
associated with a revised agreement in principle to settle opioid litigation
at an effective tax rate of 21.4%

  

The Company also reduced the contingent consideration liability related to the
Auris Health acquisition in 2019 and reversed some of its unrecognized tax
benefits due to the completion of several years of tax examinations in certain
jurisdictions during the fiscal year 2020.

  

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

63  
  
* * *

  

Temporary differences and carryforwards at the end of fiscal years 2022 and
2021 were as follows:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | 2022 Deferred Tax| |

2021 Deferred Tax(1)

|  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Asset| | Liability| | Asset| | Liability|  
Employee related obligations| | $| 725 | | | | | 1,244 | | | |  
Stock based compensation| | 687 | | | | | 679 | | | |  
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment| | | | (858)| | | | | (876)| |  
Goodwill and intangibles| | | | (4,271)| |

(3)

| | | (2,659)| |

(2)  
  
R&D capitalized for tax| | 2,611 | | | | | 1,664 | | | |  
Reserves & liabilities| | 2,761 | | | | | 2,882 | | | |  
Income reported for tax purposes| | 2,045 | | | | | 2,566 | | | |  
  
Net realizable operating loss carryforwards(4)

| | 1,260 | | | | | 1,720 | | | |  
Undistributed foreign earnings| | 1,565 | | | (1,693)| | | 1,015 | | |
(1,461)| |  
Global intangible low-taxed income| | | | (3,547)| | | | | (4,853)| |  
Miscellaneous international| | 1,053 | | | (65)| | | 870 | | | (39)| |  
Miscellaneous U.S. | | 476 | | | | | | | (16)| |  
Total deferred income taxes| | $| 13,183 | | | (10,434)| | | 12,640 | | |
(9,904)| |  
  
(1) Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current
year presentation.

(2)  Amount is inclusive of the $2.3 billion deferred tax asset established as
part of the reorganized ownership structure of certain wholly-owned
international subsidiaries, as previously described.

(3) Amount is inclusive of the $1.8 billion deferred tax liability due to the
acquisition of Abiomed.

(4)  Net of valuation allowances of $0.9 billion in both 2022 and 2021.

  

The Company has wholly-owned international subsidiaries that have cumulative
net losses. The Company believes that it is more likely than not that these
subsidiaries will generate future taxable income sufficient to utilize these
deferred tax assets. However, in certain jurisdictions, valuation allowances
have been recorded against deferred tax assets for loss carryforwards that are
not more likely than not to be realized.

The following table summarizes the activity related to unrecognized tax
benefits:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020|  
Beginning of year| | $| 3,323 | | | 3,373 | | | 3,853 | |  
Increases related to current year tax positions| | 523 | | | 242 | | | 265 | |  
Increases related to prior period tax positions| | 143 | | | 23 | | | 668 | |  
Decreases related to prior period tax positions| | (148)| | | (128)| | |
(551)| |  
Settlements| | (1)| | | (187)| | | (839)| |  
Lapse of statute of limitations| | (11)| | | -- | | | (23)| |  
End of year| | $| 3,829 | | | 3,323 | | | 3,373 | |  
  
  

The unrecognized tax benefits of $3.8 billion at January 1, 2023, if
recognized, would affect the Company's annual effective tax rate. The Company
conducts business and files tax returns in numerous countries and currently
has tax audits in progress with a number of tax authorities. With respect to
the United States, the IRS has completed its audit for the tax years through
2012 and is currently auditing tax years 2013 through 2016. In the fiscal year
2020, the Company made its final payments for approximately $0.7 billion to
the U.S. Treasury related to the final settlement of 2010-2012 tax audit
liability.

  

In other major jurisdictions where the Company conducts business, the years
that remain open to tax audits go back to the year 2008. The Company believes
it is possible that some tax audits may be completed over the next twelve
months by taxing authorities in some jurisdictions, including in the United
States. However, the Company is not able to provide a reasonably reliable
estimate of the timing of any other future tax payments or change in uncertain
tax positions, if any.

  

The Company classifies liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits and related
interest and penalties as long-term liabilities. Interest expense and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are classified as income tax
expense. The Company recognized after tax interest expense of $139 million,
$44 million and $32 million in fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
The total amount of accrued interest was $651 million and $512 million in
fiscal years 2022 and 2021, respectively.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

64  
  
* * *

  

  

9.Employee Related Obligations

At the end of fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, employee related obligations
recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets were:| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021  
Pension benefits| | $| 2,698 | | | 4,088 |  
Postretirement benefits| | 1,734 | | | 2,069 |  
Postemployment benefits| | 2,832 | | | 3,117 |  
Deferred compensation| | 100 | | | 181 |  
Total employee obligations| | 7,364 | | | 9,455 |  
Less current benefits payable| | 597 | | | 557 |  
Employee related obligations -- non-current| | $| 6,767 | | | 8,898 |  
  
Prepaid employee related obligations of $4,581 million and $4,436 million for
2022 and 2021, respectively, are included in Other assets on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.

  

  

10.Pensions and Other Benefit Plans

  

The Company sponsors various retirement and pension plans, including defined
benefit, defined contribution and termination indemnity plans, which cover
most employees worldwide. The Company also provides post-retirement benefits,
primarily healthcare, to all eligible U.S. retired employees and their
dependents.

  

Many international employees are covered by government-sponsored programs and
the cost to the Company is not significant.

  

In the U.S, non-union pension benefits for employees hired before January 1,
2015 are primarily based on the employee's compensation during the last five
years before retirement and the number of years of service (the Final Average
Pay formula). U.S. pension benefits for employees hired after 2014, are
calculated using a different formula based on employee compensation over total
years of service (the Retirement Value formula).

  

In January 2021, the Company announced that, effective on January 1, 2026, all
eligible U.S. non-union employees,

regardless of hire date, will earn benefits under the Retirement Value
formula. This amendment does not affect the benefits

accrued under the Final Average Pay formula for service before January 1,
2026.

  

International subsidiaries have plans under which funds are deposited with
trustees, annuities are purchased under group contracts, or reserves are
provided.

  

The Company does not fund retiree healthcare benefits in advance and has the
right to modify these plans in the future.

  

In 2022 and 2021 the Company used December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021,
respectively, as the measurement date for all U.S. and international
retirement and other benefit plans.

  

Net periodic benefit costs for the Company's defined benefit retirement plans
and other benefit plans for 2022, 2021 and 2020 include the following
components:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Retirement Plans| | Other Benefit Plans  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Service cost| | $| 1,327 | | | 1,421 | | | 1,380 | | | 320 | | | 309 | | | 287
|  
Interest cost| | 911 | | | 770 | | | 955 | | | 105 | | | 81 | | | 133 |  
Expected return on plan assets| | (2,757)| | | (2,645)| | | (2,461)| | | (8)|
| | (7)| | | (7)|  
Amortization of prior service cost | | (184)| | | (181)| | | 2 | | | (5)| | |
(31)| | | (31)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Recognized actuarial losses (gains)| | 655 | | | 1,257 | | | 891 | | | 121 | |
| 151 | | | 142 |  
Curtailments and settlements| | 1 | | | 1 | | | 23 | | | -- | | | -- | | | --
|  
Net periodic benefit cost (credit)| | $| (47)| | | 623 | | | 790 | | | 533 | |
| 503 | | | 524 |  
  
  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

65  
  
* * *

  

The service cost component of net periodic benefit cost is presented in the
same line items on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings where other employee
compensation costs are reported, including Cost of products sold, Research and
development expense, and Selling, marketing and administrative expenses. All
other components of net periodic benefit cost are presented as part of Other
(income) expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.

  

Unrecognized gains and losses for the U.S. pension plans are amortized over
the average remaining future service for each plan. For plans with no active
employees, they are amortized over the average life expectancy. The
amortization of gains and losses for the other U.S. benefit plans is
determined by using a 10% corridor of the greater of the market value of
assets or the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. Total unamortized
gains and losses in excess of the corridor are amortized over the average
remaining future service.

  

Prior service costs/benefits for the U.S. pension plans are amortized over the
average remaining future service of plan participants at the time of the plan
amendment. Prior service cost/benefit for the other U.S. benefit plans is
amortized over the average remaining service to full eligibility age of plan
participants at the time of the plan amendment.

  

The following table represents the weighted-average actuarial assumptions:| |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Retirement Plans| | Other Benefit Plans  
Worldwide Benefit Plans| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Net Periodic Benefit Cost| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Service cost discount rate| | 2.46 | %| | 2.14 | | | 2.82 | | | 2.59 | | |
2.09 | | | 3.04 |  
Interest cost discount rate| | 2.80 | %| | 2.34 | | | 3.13 | | | 2.64 | | |
2.33 | | | 3.08 |  
Rate of increase in compensation levels| | 4.02 | %| | 4.01 | | | 4.00 | | |
4.21 | | | 4.25 | | | 4.25 |  
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets| | 7.25 | %| | 7.71 | | |
8.12 | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Benefit Obligation| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Discount rate| | 5.01 | %| | 2.49 | | | 2.14 | | | 5.42 | | | 2.68 | | | 2.23
|  
Rate of increase in compensation levels| | 4.00 | %| | 4.01 | | | 4.00 | | |
4.21 | | | 4.21 | | | 4.27 |  
  
  

The Company's discount rates are determined by considering current yield
curves representing high quality, long-term fixed income instruments. The
resulting discount rates are consistent with the duration of plan liabilities.
The Company's methodology in determining service and interest cost uses
duration specific spot rates along that yield curve to the plans' liability
cash flows.

  

The expected rates of return on plan asset assumptions represent the Company's
assessment of long-term returns on diversified investment portfolios globally.
The assessment is determined using projections from external financial
sources, long-term historical averages, actual returns by asset class and the
various asset class allocations by market.

  

The following table displays the assumed healthcare cost trend rates, for all
individuals:| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Healthcare Plans| | 2022| | 2021  
Healthcare cost trend rate assumed for next year| | 5.99 | %| | 5.33 | %  
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (ultimate trend)| |
4.01 | %| | 3.73 | %  
Year the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate| | 2047 | | | 2046 |  
  
  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

66  
  
* * *

  

  

The following table sets forth information related to the benefit obligation
and the fair value of plan assets at fiscal year-end 2022 and 2021 for the
Company's defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement plans:| |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Retirement Plans| | Other Benefit Plans  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
Change in Benefit Obligation| | | | | | | |  
Projected benefit obligation -- beginning of year| | $| 41,582 | | | 43,300 |
| | 4,878 | | | 5,028 |  
Service cost| | 1,327 | | | 1,421 | | | 320 | | | 309 |  
Interest cost| | 911 | | | 770 | | | 105 | | | 81 |  
Plan participant contributions| | 67 | | | 67 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Amendments| | 7 | | | 5 | | | -- | | | -- |  
  
Actuarial (gains) losses(1)

| | (12,213)| | | (2,132)| | | (704)| | | (188)|  
Divestitures & acquisitions| | -- | | | (2)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Curtailments, settlements & restructuring| | (7)| | | (7)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Benefits paid from plan| | (1,228)| | | (1,157)| | | (393)| | | (348)|  
Effect of exchange rates| | (815)| | | (683)| | | (9)| | | (4)|  
Projected benefit obligation -- end of year| | $| 29,631 | | | 41,582 | | |
4,197 | | | 4,878 |  
Change in Plan Assets| | | | | | | |  
Plan assets at fair value -- beginning of year| | $| 41,930 | | | 38,195 | | |
102 | | | 90 |  
Actual return (loss) on plan assets| | (8,665)| | | 4,439 | | | (17)| | | 17 |  
Company contributions| | 270 | | | 969 | | | 386 | | | 343 |  
Plan participant contributions| | 67 | | | 67 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Settlements| | (5)| | | (7)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Divestitures & acquisitions| | -- | | | (2)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Benefits paid from plan assets| | (1,228)| | | (1,157)| | | (393)| | | (348)|  
Effect of exchange rates| | (855)| | | (574)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Plan assets at fair value -- end of year| | $| 31,514 | | | 41,930 | | | 78 |
| | 102 |  
Funded status -- end of year| | $| 1,883 | | | 348 | | | (4,119)| | | (4,776)|  
Amounts Recognized in the Company's Balance Sheet consist of the following:| |
| | | | | |  
Non-current assets| | $| 4,581 | | | 4,436 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Current liabilities| | (132)| | | (115)| | | (461)| | | (438)|  
Non-current liabilities| | (2,566)| | | (3,973)| | | (3,658)| | | (4,338)|  
Total recognized in the consolidated balance sheet -- end of year| | $| 1,883
| | | 348 | | | (4,119)| | | (4,776)|  
Amounts Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income consist of the
following:| | | | | | | |  
Net actuarial loss| | $| 3,948 | | | 5,539 | | | 239 | | | 1,113 |  
  
Prior service cost (credit)(1)

| | (1,417)| | | (1,610)| | | (7)| | | (13)|  
Unrecognized net transition obligation| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total before tax effects| | $| 2,531 | | | 3,929 | | | 232 | | | 1,100 |  
| | | | | | | |  
Accumulated Benefit Obligations -- end of year| | $| 28,023 | | | 39,049 | | |
| |  
| | | | | | | |  
  
(1)The actuarial gain for retirement plans in 2022 and 2021 was primarily
related to increases in discount rates.  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

67  
  
* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Retirement Plans| | Other Benefit Plans  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
Amounts Recognized in Net Periodic Benefit Cost and Other Comprehensive
Income| | | | | | | |  
Net periodic benefit cost (credit)| | $| (47)| | | 623 | | | 533 | | | 503 |  
Net actuarial (gain) loss| | (793)| | | (3,927)| | | (751)| | | (199)|  
Amortization of net actuarial loss| | (655)| | | (1,257)| | | (121)| | |
(151)|  
Prior service cost (credit)| | 7 | | | 5 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Amortization of prior service (cost) credit| | 183 | | | 181 | | | 5 | | | 31
|  
Effect of exchange rates| | (140)| | | (136)| | | (1)| | | -- |  
Total loss/(income) recognized in other comprehensive income, before tax| | $|
(1,398)| | | (5,134)| | | (868)| | | (319)|  
Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income|
| $| (1,445)| | | (4,511)| | | (335)| | | 184 |  
  
  

The Company plans to continue to fund its U.S. Qualified Plans to comply with
the Pension Protection Act of 2006. International Plans are funded in
accordance with local regulations. Additional discretionary contributions are
made when deemed appropriate to meet the long-term obligations of the plans.
For certain plans, funding is not a common practice, as funding provides no
economic benefit. Consequently, the Company has several pension plans that are
not funded.

  

In 2022, the Company contributed $119 million and $151 million to its U.S. and
international pension plans, respectively.

The following table displays the funded status of the Company's U.S. Qualified
& Non-Qualified pension plans and international funded and unfunded pension
plans at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively:

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| U.S. Plans| International Plans  
| Qualified Plans| Non-Qualified Plans| Funded Plans| Unfunded Plans  
(Dollars in Millions)| 2022| 2021| 2022| 2021| 2022| 2021| 2022| 2021  
Plan Assets| $| 20,937 | | 27,944 | | -- | | -- | | 10,577 | | 13,986 | | -- |
| -- |  
Projected Benefit Obligation| 18,394 | | 25,041 | | 1,937 | | 2,703 | | 9,024
| | 13,428 | | 276 | | 410 |  
Accumulated Benefit Obligation| 17,696 | | 23,985 | | 1,872 | | 2,479 | |
8,202 | | 12,212 | | 253 | | 373 |  
Over (Under) Funded Status| | | | | | | |  
Projected Benefit Obligation| $| 2,543 | | 2,903 | | (1,937)| | (2,703)| |
1,553 | | 558 | | (276)| | (410)|  
Accumulated Benefit Obligation| 3,241 | | 3,959 | | (1,872)| | (2,479)| |
2,375 | | 1,774 | | (253)| | (373)|  
  
Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets have an
accumulated benefit obligation, projected benefit obligation and plan assets
of $2.9 billion, $2.9 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively, at the end of
2022, and $3.9 billion, $4.2 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively, at the
end of 2021.

  

The following table displays the projected future benefit payments from the
Company's retirement and other benefit plans:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2023| | 2024| | 2025| | 2026| | 2027| | 2028-2032  
Projected future benefit payments| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Retirement plans| | $| 1,445 | | | 1,457 | | | 1,532 | | | 1,609 | | | 1,708 |
| | 10,034 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
Other benefit plans | | $| 471 | | | 485 | | | 433 | | | 447 | | | 462 | | |
2,539 |  
  
  

The following table displays the projected future minimum contributions to the
unfunded retirement plans. These amounts do not include any discretionary
contributions that the Company may elect to make in the future.| | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2023| | 2024| | 2025| | 2026| | 2027| | 2028-2032  
Projected future contributions| | $| 123 | | | 128 | | | 136 | | | 141 | | |
146 | | | 816 |  
  
  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

68  
  
* * *

  

Each pension plan is overseen by a local committee or board that is
responsible for the overall administration and investment of the pension
plans. In determining investment policies, strategies and goals, each
committee or board considers factors including, local pension rules and
regulations; local tax regulations; availability of investment vehicles
(separate accounts, commingled accounts, insurance funds, etc.); funded status
of the plans; ratio of actives to retirees; duration of liabilities; and other
relevant factors including: diversification, liquidity of local markets and
liquidity of base currency. A majority of the Company's pension funds are open
to new entrants and are expected to be on-going plans. Permitted investments
are primarily liquid and/or listed, with little reliance on illiquid and non-
traditional investments such as hedge funds.

  

The Company's retirement plan asset allocation at the end of 2022 and 2021 and
target allocations for 2023 are as follows:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Percent of  
Plan Assets| | Target  
Allocation  
| | 2022| | 2021| | 2023  
Worldwide Retirement Plans| | | | | |  
Equity securities| | 62 | %| | 65 | %| | 61 | %  
Debt securities| | 38 | | | 35 | | | 39 |  
Total plan assets| | 100 | %| | 100 | %| | 100 | %  
  
Determination of Fair Value of Plan Assets

The Plan has an established and well-documented process for determining fair
values. Fair value is based upon quoted market prices, where available. If
listed prices or quotes are not available, fair value is based upon models
that primarily use, as inputs, market-based or independently sourced market
parameters, including yield curves, interest rates, volatilities, equity or
debt prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves.

While the Plan believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent
with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or
assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could
result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date.

Valuation Hierarchy

The authoritative literature establishes a three-level hierarchy to prioritize
the inputs used in measuring fair value. The levels within the hierarchy are
described in the table below with Level 1 having the highest priority and
Level 3 having the lowest.

The Net Asset Value (NAV) is based on the value of the underlying assets owned
by the fund, minus its liabilities, and then divided by the number of shares
outstanding.

A financial instrument's categorization within the valuation hierarchy is
based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value
measurement.

Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for the
investments measured at fair value.

•Short-term investment funds -- Cash and quoted short-term instruments are
valued at the closing price or the amount held on deposit by the custodian
bank. Other investments are through investment vehicles valued using the NAV
provided by the administrator of the fund. The NAV is a quoted price in a
market that is not active and classified as Level 2.

•Government and agency securities -- A limited number of these investments are
valued at the closing price reported on the major market on which the
individual securities are traded. Where quoted prices are available in an
active market, the investments are classified within Level 1 of the valuation
hierarchy. If quoted market prices are not available for the specific
security, then fair values are estimated by using pricing models, quoted
prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows.
When quoted market prices for a security are not available in an active
market, they are classified as Level 2.

•Debt instruments -- A limited number of these investments are valued at the
closing price reported on the major market on which the individual securities
are traded. Where quoted prices are available in an active market, the
investments are classified as Level 1\. If quoted market prices are not
available for the specific security, then fair values are estimated by using
pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or
discounted cash flows and are classified as Level 2\. Level 3 debt instruments
are priced based on unobservable inputs.

•Equity securities -- Equity securities are valued at the closing price
reported on the major market on which the individual securities are traded.
Substantially all equity securities are classified within Level 1 of the
valuation hierarchy.

•Commingled funds -- These investment vehicles are valued using the NAV
provided by the fund administrator. Assets in the Level 2 category have a
quoted market price.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

69  
  
* * *

  

•Other assets -- Other assets are represented primarily by limited
partnerships. These investment vehicles are valued using the NAV provided by
the fund administrator. Other assets that are exchange listed and actively
traded are classified as Level 1, while inactively traded assets are
classified as Level 2\.

  

The following table sets forth the Retirement Plans' investments measured at
fair value as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021:| | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Quoted Prices  
in Active  
Markets for  
Identical Assets| | Significant  
Other  
Observable  
Inputs| |

Significant

Unobservable

Inputs(1)

| | Investments Measured at Net Asset Value| | | |  
| | (Level 1)| | (Level 2)| | (Level 3)| | | | | | Total Assets  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022|
| 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
Short-term investment funds| | $| 33 | | | 102 | | | 13 | | | 1,033 | | | -- |
| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 46 | | | 1,135 |  
Government and agency securities| | -- | | | -- | | | 5,863 | | | 7,016 | | |
-- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 5,863 | | | 7,016 |  
Debt instruments| | -- | | | -- | | | 3,681 | | | 3,505 | | | -- | | | -- | |
| -- | | | -- | | | 3,681 | | | 3,505 |  
Equity securities| | 8,846 | | | 14,107 | | | 2 | | | 2 | | | -- | | | -- | |
| -- | | | -- | | | 8,848 | | | 14,109 |  
Commingled funds| | -- | | | -- | | | 4,362 | | | 5,496 | | | 56 | | | 105 | |
| 6,106 | | | 8,708 | | | 10,524 | | | 14,309 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Other assets| | -- | | | -- | | | 33 | | | 34 | | | 13 | | | 15 | | | 2,506 |
| | 1,807 | | | 2,552 | | | 1,856 |  
Investments at fair value| | $| 8,879 | | | 14,209 | | | 13,954 | | | 17,086 |
| | 69 | | | 120 | | | 8,612 | | | 10,515 | | | 31,514 | | | 41,930 |  
  
  

(1) The activity for the Level 3 assets is not significant for all years
presented.

  

The Company's Other Benefit Plans are unfunded except for U.S. commingled
funds (Level 2) of $78 million and $102 million at December 31, 2022 and
December 31, 2021, respectively.

The fair value of Johnson & Johnson Common Stock directly held in plan assets
was $21 million (0.1% of total plan assets) at December 31, 2022 and $385
million (0.9% of total plan assets) at December 31, 2021.

  

  

11.Savings Plan

The Company has voluntary 401(k) savings plans designed to enhance the
existing retirement programs covering eligible employees. The Company matches
a percentage of each employee's contributions consistent with the provisions
of the plan for which he/she is eligible. Total Company matching contributions
to the plans were $275 million, $256 million and $243 million in fiscal years
2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

70  
  
* * *

  

12.Capital and Treasury Stock

Changes in treasury stock were:| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Treasury Stock  
(Amounts in Millions Except Treasury Stock Shares in Thousands)| | Shares| |
Amount  
Balance at December 29, 2019| | 487,336 | | | $| 38,417 |  
Employee compensation and stock option plans| | (21,765)| | | (3,148)|  
Repurchase of common stock| | 21,760 | | | 3,221 |  
Balance at January 3, 2021| | 487,331 | | | 38,490 |  
Employee compensation and stock option plans| | (17,399)| | | (2,847)|  
Repurchase of common stock| | 20,946 | | | 3,456 |  
Balance at January 2, 2022| | 490,878 | | | 39,099 |  
Employee compensation and stock option plans| | (20,007)| | | (3,440)|  
Repurchase of common stock| | 35,375 | | | 6,035 |  
Balance at January 1, 2023| | 506,246 | | | $| 41,694 |  
  
  

Aggregate shares of common stock issued were approximately 3,119,843,000
shares at the end of fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020.

  

Cash dividends paid were $4.45 per share in fiscal year 2022, compared with
dividends of $4.19 per share in fiscal year 2021, and $3.98 per share in
fiscal year 2020.

On January 3, 2023, the Board of Directors declared a regular cash dividend of
$1.13 per share, payable on March 7, 2023 to shareholders of record as of
February 21, 2023.

On September 14, 2022, the Company announced that its Board of Directors
approved a share repurchase program, authorizing the Company to purchase up to
$5.0 billion of the Company's shares of common stock. Share repurchases may be
made at management's discretion from time to time on the open market or
through privately negotiated transactions. The repurchase program has no time
limit and may be suspended for periods or discontinued at any time. Through
January 1, 2023, approximately $2.5 billion has been repurchased under the
program.

  

  

13.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Components of other comprehensive income (loss) consist of the following:| | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| | Foreign  
Currency Translation| | Gain/(Loss) On Securities| | Employee Benefit Plans| |
Gain/  
(Loss) On  
Derivatives & Hedges| | Total  
Accumulated  
Other  
Comprehensive Income (Loss)  
December 29, 2019| | $| (8,705)| | | -- | | | (6,891)| | | (295)| | |
(15,891)|  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Net 2020 changes| | (233)| | | 1 | | | (66)| | | 947 | | | 649 |  
January 3, 2021| | (8,938)| | | 1 | | | (6,957)| | | 652 | | | (15,242)|  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Net 2021 changes| | (1,079)| | | (4)| | | 4,255 | | | (988)| | | 2,184 |  
January 2, 2022| | (10,017)| | | (3)| | | (2,702)| | | (336)| | | (13,058)|  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Net 2022 changes| | (1,796)| | | (24)| | | 1,805 | | | 106 | | | 91 |  
January 1, 2023| | $| (11,813)| | | (27)| | | (897)| | | (230)| | | (12,967)|  
  
  

  

Amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income are presented net of the
related tax impact. Foreign currency translation is not adjusted for income
taxes where it relates to permanent investments in international subsidiaries.
For additional details on comprehensive income see the Consolidated Statements
of Comprehensive Income.

  

Details on reclassifications out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income:

Gain/(Loss) On Securities - reclassifications released to Other (income)
expense, net.

Employee Benefit Plans - reclassifications are included in net periodic
benefit cost. See Note 10 for additional details.

Gain/(Loss) On Derivatives & Hedges - reclassifications to earnings are
recorded in the same account as the hedged transaction. See Note 6 for
additional details.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

71  
  
* * *

  

  

  

14.International Currency Translation

For translation of its subsidiaries operating in non-U.S. Dollar currencies,
the Company has determined that the local currencies of its international
subsidiaries are the functional currencies except those in highly inflationary
economies, which are defined as those which have had compound cumulative rates
of inflation of 100% or more during the past three years, or where a
substantial portion of its cash flows are not in the local currency. For the
majority of the Company's subsidiaries the local currency is the functional
currency.

In consolidating international subsidiaries, balance sheet currency effects
are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. The
other current and non-current assets line within the Statement of Cash flows
includes the impact of foreign currency translation. This equity account
includes the results of translating certain balance sheet assets and
liabilities at current exchange rates and some accounts at historical rates,
except for those located in highly inflationary economies, (Argentina and
Venezuela). Beginning in the fiscal second quarter of 2022, the Company also
accounted for operations in Turkey as highly inflationary. The translation of
balance sheet accounts for highly inflationary economies are reflected in the
operating results.

A rollforward of the changes during fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020 for
foreign currency translation adjustments is included in Note 13\.

Net currency transaction gains and losses included in Other (income) expense
were losses of $328 million, $236 million and $209 million in fiscal years
2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

  

15.Earnings Per Share

The following is a reconciliation of basic net earnings per share to diluted
net earnings per share for the fiscal years ended January 1, 2023, January 2,
2022 and January 3, 2021:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(In Millions Except Per Share Amounts)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Basic net earnings per share| | $| 6.83 | | | 7.93 | | | 5.59 |  
Average shares outstanding -- basic| | 2,625.2 | | | 2,632.1 | | | 2,632.8 |  
Potential shares exercisable under stock option plans| | 140.1 | | | 138.0 | |
| 118.3 |  
Less: shares repurchased under treasury stock method| | (101.4)| | | (96.1)| |
| (80.4)|  
Adjusted average shares outstanding -- diluted| | 2,663.9 | | | 2,674.0 | | |
2,670.7 |  
Diluted net earnings per share| | $| 6.73 | | | 7.81 | | | 5.51 |  
  
  

The diluted net earnings per share calculation for the fiscal years 2022 and
2021 included all shares related to stock options, as the exercise price of
these options was less than the average market value of the Company's stock.

  

The diluted net earnings per share calculation for fiscal year 2020 excluded
18 million shares related to stock options, as the exercise price of these
options was greater than the average market value of the Company's stock.

  

16.Common Stock, Stock Option Plans and Stock Compensation Agreements

At January 1, 2023, the Company had one stock-based compensation plan. The
shares outstanding are for contracts under the Company's 2012 Long-Term
Incentive Plan and the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The 2012 Long-Term
Incentive Plan expired on April 26, 2022. All awards (stock options,
restricted shares units and performance share units) granted subsequent to
that date were under the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Under the 2022 Long-
Term Incentive Plan, the Company may issue up to 150 million shares of common
stock, of which up to 110 million shares of common stock may be issued subject
to stock options or stock appreciation rights and up to 40 million shares of
common stock may be issued subject to full value awards. Awards will generally
be counted on a 1-for-1 basis against the share reserve, provided that if more
than 40 million full value awards are granted, each full value award in excess
of 40 million will be counted on a 5-for-1 basis against the share reserve.
Shares available for future grants under the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan
were 150 million at the end of fiscal year 2022.

The compensation cost that has been charged against income for these plans was
$1,138 million, $1,135 million and $1,005 million for fiscal years 2022, 2021
and 2020, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income
statement for share-based compensation costs was $196 million, $218 million
and $210 million for fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The
Company also recognized additional income tax benefits of $282 million, $223
million and $248 million for fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively,
for which options were exercised or restricted shares were vested. The total
unrecognized compensation cost was $939 million, $862 million and $804 million
for fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The weighted average
period for this cost to be recognized was 1.80 years, 1.78 years and 1.76
years for fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. Share-based
compensation costs capitalized as part of inventory were insignificant in all
periods.

The Company settles employee benefit equity issuances with treasury shares.
Treasury shares are replenished through market purchases throughout the year
for the number of shares used to settle employee benefit equity issuances.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

72  
  
* * *

  

Stock Options

Stock options expire 10 years from the date of grant and vest over service
periods that range from 6 months to 4 years. All options are granted at the
average of the high and low prices of the Company's Common Stock on the New
York Stock Exchange on the date of grant.

The fair value of each option award was estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses the assumptions noted in
the following table. For 2022, 2021, and 2020 grants, expected volatility
represents a blended rate of 10-year weekly historical overall volatility
rate, and a 5-week average implied volatility rate based on at-the-money
traded Johnson & Johnson options with a life of 2 years. For all grants,
historical data is used to determine the expected life of the option. The
risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the
time of grant.

  

The average fair value of options granted was $23.23, $20.86 and $16.42, in
fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The fair value was estimated
based on the weighted average assumptions of:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Risk-free rate| 1.98 | %| | 0.83 | %| | 1.47 | %  
Expected volatility| 18.00 | %| | 18.59 | %| | 15.33 | %  
Expected life (in years)| 7.0| | 7.0| | 7.0  
Expected dividend yield| 2.70 | %| | 2.50 | %| | 2.60 | %  
  
  

A summary of option activity under the Plan as of January 1, 2023, January 2,
2022 and January 3, 2021, and changes during the years ending on those dates
is presented below:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Shares in Thousands)| | Outstanding Shares| | Weighted  
Average Exercise Price| | Aggregate  
Intrinsic  
Value  
(Dollars in Millions)  
Shares at December 29, 2019| | 111,637 | | | $| 105.63 | | | $| 4,478 |  
Options granted| | 20,723 | | | 151.41 | | |  
Options exercised| | (16,275)| | | 86.05 | | |  
Options canceled/forfeited| | (1,835)| | | 137.62 | | |  
Shares at January 3, 2021| | 114,250 | | | 116.22 | | | 4,703 |  
Options granted| | 18,525 | | | 164.62 | | |  
Options exercised| | (13,248)| | | 97.48 | | |  
Options canceled/forfeited| | (2,166)| | | 149.75 | | |  
Shares at January 2, 2022| | 117,361 | | | 125.36 | | | 5,364 |  
Options granted| | 19,809 | | | 165.89 | | |  
Options exercised| | (16,310)| | | 100.15 | | |  
Options canceled/forfeited| | (2,188)| | | 160.56 | | |  
Shares at January 1, 2023| | 118,672 | | | $| 134.95 | | | $| 4,949 |  
  
  

The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $1,228 million, $919
million and $1,021 million in fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

73  
  
* * *

  

  

The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and exercisable at
January 1, 2023:| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Shares in Thousands)| | Outstanding| | Exercisable  
Exercise Price Range| | Options| |

Average Life(1)

| | Weighted Average Exercise Price| | Options| | Weighted Average Exercise
Price  
  
$72.54-$100.48

| | 17,221 | | | 1.5| | $93.07| | 17,221 | | | $93.07  
  
$101.87-$115.67

| | 22,039 | | | 3.6| | $108.78| | 22,039 | | | $108.78  
  
$129.51-$141.06

| | 24,870 | | | 5.7| | $130.88| | 24,228 | | | $130.85  
  
$151.41-$164.62

| | 35,465 | | | 7.6| | $157.75| | 150 | | | $156.21  
  
$164.63-$165.89

| | 19,077 | | | 9.1| | $165.89| | 23 | | | $165.89  
| | 118,672 | | | 5.8| | $134.95| | 63,661 | | | $113.06  
  
(1) Average contractual life remaining in years.

Stock options outstanding at January 2, 2022 and January 3, 2021 were 117,361
and an average life of 5.8 years and 114,250 and an average life of 6.0 years,
respectively. Stock options exercisable at January 2, 2022 and January 3, 2021
were 62,742 at an average price of $104.42 and 61,289 at an average price of
$96.97, respectively.

Restricted Share Units and Performance Share Units

The Company grants restricted share units which vest over service periods that
range from 6 months to 3 years. The Company also grants performance share
units, which are paid in shares of Johnson & Johnson Common Stock after the
end of a three-year performance period. Performance shares were granted with
two equally-weighted goals that directly align with or help drive long-term
total shareholder return: adjusted operational earnings per share and relative
total shareholder return. The number of shares actually earned at the end of
the three-year period will vary, based only on actual performance, from 0% to
200% of the target number of performance share units granted.

  

A summary of the restricted share units and performance share units activity
under the Plans as of January 1, 2023 is presented below:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Shares in Thousands)| | Outstanding Restricted Share Units| | Outstanding
Performance Share Units  
| | | |  
| | | |  
| | | |  
| | | |  
| | | |  
| | | |  
| | | |  
| | | |  
Shares at January 2, 2022| | 14,122 | | | 2,312 |  
Granted| | 5,154 | | | 753 |  
Issued| | (4,866)| | | (637)|  
Canceled/forfeited/adjusted| | (794)| | | (71)|  
Shares at January 1, 2023| | 13,616 | | | 2,357 |  
  
The average fair value of the restricted share units granted was $153.67,
$152.62 and $139.58 in fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, using
the fair market value at the date of grant. The fair value of restricted share
units was discounted for dividends, which are not paid on the restricted share
units during the vesting period. The fair value of restricted share units
issued was $591 million, $611 million and $650 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020,
respectively.

The weighted average fair value of the performance share units granted was
$170.46, $179.35 and $160.54 in fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, calculated
using the weighted average fair market value for each of the component goals
at the date of grant.

The fair values for the sales and earnings per share goals of each performance
share unit were estimated on the date of grant using the fair market value of
the shares at the time of the award discounted for dividends, which are not
paid on the performance share units during the vesting period. The fair value
for the relative total shareholder return goal of each performance share unit
was estimated on the date of grant using the Monte Carlo valuation model. The
fair value of performance share units issued was $94 million, $83 million and
$91 million in fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

74  
  
* * *

  

17.Segments of Business* and Geographic Areas

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Sales to Customers | | % Change  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | '22 vs. '21| | '21 vs. '20  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
CONSUMER HEALTH (1)

| |  | |  | |  | | | |  
OTC| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | $| 2,782 | | | 2,594 | | | 2,460 | | | 7.3 | %| | 5.4 |  
International| | 3,249 | | | 3,034 | | | 2,761 | | | 7.1 | | | 9.9 |  
Worldwide | | 6,031 | | | 5,627 | | | 5,221 | | | 7.2 | | | 7.8 |  
Skin Health/Beauty| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 2,337 | | | 2,400 | | | 2,350 | | | (2.6)| | | 2.1 |  
International| | 2,015 | | | 2,141 | | | 2,100 | | | (5.9)| | | 1.9 |  
Worldwide | | 4,352 | | | 4,541 | | | 4,450 | | | (4.2)| | | 2.0 |  
Oral Care| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 635 | | | 637 | | | 683 | | | (0.3)| | | (6.7)|  
International| | 871 | | | 1,008 | | | 958 | | | (13.6)| | | 5.1 |  
Worldwide | | 1,505 | | | 1,645 | | | 1,641 | | | (8.5)| | | 0.2 |  
Baby Care| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 357 | | | 378 | | | 376 | | | (5.5)| | | 0.5 |  
International| | 1,104 | | | 1,188 | | | 1,141 | | | (7.1)| | | 4.1 |  
Worldwide | | 1,461 | | | 1,566 | | | 1,517 | | | (6.7)| | | 3.2 |  
Women's Health| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 13 | | | 13 | | | 13 | | | 1.7 | | | (1.6)|  
International| | 891 | | | 905 | | | 888 | | | (1.5)| | | 1.8 |  
Worldwide | | 904 | | | 917 | | | 901 | | | (1.5)| | | 1.8 |  
Wound Care/Other| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 475 | | | 495 | | | 480 | | | (4.0)| | | 3.1 |  
International| | 224 | | | 243 | | | 240 | | | (8.0)| | | 1.7 |  
Worldwide | | 700 | | | 739 | | | 720 | | | (5.3)| | | 2.6 |  
TOTAL CONSUMER HEALTH| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 6,599 | | | 6,516 | | | 6,362 | | | 1.3 | | | 2.4 |  
International| | 8,354 | | | 8,519 | | | 8,088 | | | (1.9)| | | 5.3 |  
Worldwide | | 14,953 | | | 15,035 | | | 14,450 | | | (0.5)| | | 4.0 |  
  
  

  

| | | | | | | | | |  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

75  
  
* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
PHARMACEUTICAL(1)

| | | | | | | | | |  
Immunology| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 11,036 | | | 10,843 | | | 10,175 | | | 1.8 | | | 6.6 |  
International| | 5,899 | | | 5,907 | | | 4,880 | | | (0.1)| | | 21.0 |  
Worldwide | | 16,935 | | | 16,750 | | | 15,055 | | | 1.1 | | | 11.3 |  
REMICADE| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,417 | | | 2,019 | | | 2,508 | | | (29.8)| | | (19.5)|  
U.S. Exports| | 204 | | | 236 | | | 346 | | | (13.6)| | | (31.9)|  
International| | 722 | | | 935 | | | 893 | | | (22.8)| | | 4.8 |  
Worldwide | | 2,343 | | | 3,190 | | | 3,747 | | | (26.6)| | | (14.9)|  
  
SIMPONI / SIMPONI ARIA

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,166 | | | 1,127 | | | 1,155 | | | 3.5 | | | (2.4)|  
International| | 1,017 | | | 1,148 | | | 1,088 | | | (11.4)| | | 5.5 |  
Worldwide | | 2,184 | | | 2,276 | | | 2,243 | | | (4.0)| | | 1.4 |  
  
STELARA

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 6,388 | | | 5,938 | | | 5,240 | | | 7.6 | | | 13.3 |  
International| | 3,335 | | | 3,196 | | | 2,467 | | | 4.4 | | | 29.6 |  
Worldwide | | 9,723 | | | 9,134 | | | 7,707 | | | 6.5 | | | 18.5 |  
  
TREMFYA

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,844 | | | 1,503 | | | 926 | | | 22.7 | | | 62.3 |  
International| | 824 | | | 624 | | | 421 | | | 32.0 | | | 48.2 |  
Worldwide | | 2,668 | | | 2,127 | | | 1,347 | | | 25.4 | | | 57.9 |  
  
OTHER IMMUNOLOGY

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 17 | | | 21 | | | -- | | | (18.4)| | | **  
International| | 0 | | | 3 | | | 11 | | | **| | (73.3)|  
Worldwide | | 17 | | | 24 | | | 11 | | | (28.2)| | | **  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Infectious Diseases| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,680 | | | 2,249 | | | 1,735 | | | (25.3)| | | 29.7 |  
International| | 3,769 | | | 3,576 | | | 1,808 | | | 5.4 | | | 97.8 |  
Worldwide | | 5,449 | | | 5,825 | | | 3,543 | | | (6.5)| | | 64.4 |  
  
COVID-19 VACCINE

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 120 | | | 634 | | | -- | | | (81.1)| | | **  
International| | 2,059 | | | 1,751 | | | -- | | | 17.6 | | | **  
Worldwide| | 2,179 | | | 2,385 | | | -- | | | (8.6)| | | **  
  
EDURANT / rilpivirine

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 36 | | | 41 | | | 44 | | | (10.8)| | | (7.6)|  
International| | 972 | | | 953 | | | 920 | | | 2.0 | | | 3.6 |  
Worldwide | | 1,008 | | | 994 | | | 964 | | | 1.5 | | | 3.1 |  
  
PREZISTA / PREZCOBIX /  REZOLSTA / SYMTUZA

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,494 | | | 1,508 | | | 1,587 | | | (1.0)| | | (4.9)|  
International| | 449 | | | 575 | | | 597 | | | (21.9)| | | (3.6)|  
Worldwide | | 1,943 | | | 2,083 | | | 2,184 | | | (6.7)| | | (4.6)|  
  
OTHER INFECTIOUS DISEASES

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 30 | | | 66 | | | 104 | | | (55.5)| | | (36.0)|  
International| | 289 | | | 297 | | | 292 | | | (2.6)| | | 1.7 |  
Worldwide | | 318 | | | 363 | | | 396 | | | (12.3)| | | (8.3)|  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

76  
  
* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Neuroscience| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 3,570 | | | 3,347 | | | 3,091 | | | 6.7 | | | 8.3 |  
International| | 3,323 | | | 3,641 | | | 3,435 | | | (8.7)| | | 6.0 |  
Worldwide | | 6,893 | | | 6,988 | | | 6,526 | | | (1.4)| | | 7.1 |  
  
CONCERTA / methylphenidate

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 151 | | | 172 | | | 183 | | | (12.5)| | | (5.8)|  
International| | 493 | | | 495 | | | 439 | | | (0.4)| | | 12.8 |  
Worldwide | | 644 | | | 667 | | | 622 | | | (3.5)| | | 7.3 |  
  
INVEGA SUSTENNA / XEPLION / INVEGA TRINZA / TREVICTA

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 2,714 | | | 2,550 | | | 2,314 | | | 6.5 | | | 10.2 |  
International| | 1,426 | | | 1,472 | | | 1,339 | | | (3.1)| | | 10.0 |  
Worldwide | | 4,140 | | | 4,022 | | | 3,653 | | | 3.0 | | | 10.1 |  
  
RISPERDAL CONSTA

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 257 | | | 287 | | | 296 | | | (10.4)| | | (2.9)|  
International| | 228 | | | 305 | | | 346 | | | (25.3)| | | (11.8)|  
Worldwide | | 485 | | | 592 | | | 642 | | | (18.1)| | | (7.7)|  
  
OTHER NEUROSCIENCE

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 447 | | | 338 | | | 298 | | | 32.4 | | | 13.3 |  
International| | 1,176 | | | 1,368 | | | 1,312 | | | (14.1)| | | 4.3 |  
Worldwide | | 1,623 | | | 1,706 | | | 1,610 | | | (4.9)| | | 6.0 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Oncology| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 6,930 | | | 5,958 | | | 5,092 | | | 16.3 | | | 17.0 |  
International| | 9,052 | | | 8,590 | | | 7,275 | | | 5.4 | | | 18.1 |  
Worldwide | | 15,983 | | | 14,548 | | | 12,367 | | | 9.9 | | | 17.6 |  
  
DARZALEX

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 4,210 | | | 3,169 | | | 2,232 | | | 32.8 | | | 42.0 |  
International| | 3,767 | | | 2,854 | | | 1,958 | | | 32.0 | | | 45.8 |  
Worldwide | | 7,977 | | | 6,023 | | | 4,190 | | | 32.4 | | | 43.8 |  
  
ERLEADA

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 968 | | | 813 | | | 583 | | | 19.2 | | | 39.3  
International| | 913 | | | 478 | | | 176 | | | **| | * *  
Worldwide| | 1,881 | | | 1,291 | | | 760 | | | 45.7 | | | 70.0 |  
  
IMBRUVICA

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,390 | | | 1,747 | | | 1,821 | | | (20.4)| | | (4.0)|  
International| | 2,394 | | | 2,622 | | | 2,307 | | | (8.7)| | | 13.6 |  
Worldwide | | 3,784 | | | 4,369 | | | 4,128 | | | (13.4)| | | 5.8 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
ZYTIGA /abiraterone acetate

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 74 | | | 119 | | | 373 | | | (37.8)| | | (68.1)|  
International| | 1,696 | | | 2,178 | | | 2,097 | | | (22.1)| | | 3.9 |  
Worldwide | | 1,770 | | | 2,297 | | | 2,470 | | | (22.9)| | | (7.0)|  
  
OTHER ONCOLOGY

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 289 | | | 110 | | | 83 | | | **| | 31.7 |  
International| | 283 | | | 458 | | | 738 | | | (38.3)| | | (37.9)|  
Worldwide | | 571 | | | 568 | | | 821 | | | 0.6 | | | (30.8)|  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

77  
  
* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Pulmonary Hypertension| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 2,346 | | | 2,365 | | | 2,133 | | | (0.8)| | | 10.9 |  
International| | 1,071 | | | 1,085 | | | 1,015 | | | (1.3)| | | 6.9 |  
Worldwide | | 3,417 | | | 3,450 | | | 3,148 | | | (1.0)| | | 9.6 |  
  
OPSUMIT

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,132 | | | 1,147 | | | 1,008 | | | (1.3)| | | 13.7 |  
International| | 651 | | | 672 | | | 631 | | | (3.2)| | | 6.6 |  
Worldwide | | 1,783 | | | 1,819 | | | 1,639 | | | (2.0)| | | 11.0 |  
  
UPTRAVI

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,104 | | | 1,056 | | | 955 | | | 4.5 | | | 10.5 |  
International| | 218 | | | 181 | | | 138 | | | 20.4 | | | 31.1 |  
Worldwide | | 1,322 | | | 1,237 | | | 1,093 | | | 6.9 | | | 13.1 |  
  
OTHER

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 110 | | | 163 | | | 169 | | | (32.3)| | | (3.7)|  
International| | 202 | | | 232 | | | 247 | | | (12.8)| | | (5.9)|  
Worldwide | | 313 | | | 395 | | | 416 | | | (20.8)| | | (5.0)|  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Cardiovascular / Metabolism / Other| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 3,042 | | | 3,192 | | | 3,509 | | | (4.7)| | | (9.0)|  
International| | 845 | | | 927 | | | 1,025 | | | (8.9)| | | (9.6)|  
Worldwide | | 3,887 | | | 4,119 | | | 4,534 | | | (5.6)| | | (9.2)|  
  
XARELTO

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 2,473 | | | 2,438 | | | 2,345 | | | 1.4 | | | 4.0 |  
International| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Worldwide | | 2,473 | | | 2,438 | | | 2,345 | | | 1.4 | | | 4.0 |  
  
INVOKANA/ INVOKAMET

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 193 | | | 308 | | | 564 | | | (37.4)| | | (45.4)|  
International| | 255 | | | 254 | | | 231 | | | 0.1 | | | 9.9 |  
Worldwide | | 448 | | | 563 | | | 795 | | | (20.4)| | | (29.3)|  
  
OTHER(2)

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 376 | | | 446 | | | 600 | | | (15.5)| | | (25.7)|  
International| | 590 | | | 673 | | | 794 | | | (12.3)| | | (15.2)|  
Worldwide | | 966 | | | 1,119 | | | 1,394 | | | (13.6)| | | (19.7)|  
| | | | | | | | | |  
TOTAL PHARMACEUTICAL| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 28,604 | | | 27,954 | | | 25,735 | | | 2.3 | | | 8.6 |  
International| | 23,959 | | | 23,726 | | | 19,440 | | | 1.0 | | | 22.0 |  
Worldwide | | 52,563 | | | 51,680 | | | 45,175 | | | 1.7 | | | 14.4 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

78  
  
* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
MEDTECH*(3)

| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
Interventional Solutions| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 2,169 | | | 1,836 | | | 1,452 | | | 18.2 | | | 26.4 |  
International| | 2,131 | | | 2,135 | | | 1,594 | | | (0.2)| | | 34.0 |  
Worldwide | | 4,300 | | | 3,971 | | | 3,046 | | | 8.3 | | | 30.4 |  
Orthopaedics| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 5,321 | | | 5,126 | | | 4,779 | | | 3.8 | | | 7.3 |  
International| | 3,267 | | | 3,462 | | | 2,984 | | | (5.6)| | | 16.0 |  
Worldwide | | 8,587 | | | 8,588 | | | 7,763 | | | 0.0 | | | 10.6 |  
  
HIPS

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 943 | | | 878 | | | 793 | | | 7.3 | | | 10.7 |  
International| | 571 | | | 602 | | | 487 | | | (5.1)| | | 23.6 |  
Worldwide | | 1,514 | | | 1,480 | | | 1,280 | | | 2.3 | | | 15.6 |  
  
KNEES

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 851 | | | 787 | | | 743 | | | 8.2 | | | 5.9 |  
International| | 508 | | | 538 | | | 427 | | | (5.7)| | | 26.1 |  
Worldwide | | 1,359 | | | 1,325 | | | 1,170 | | | 2.6 | | | 13.3 |  
  
TRAUMA

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,882 | | | 1,819 | | | 1,648 | | | 3.5 | | | 10.4 |  
International| | 989 | | | 1,066 | | | 966 | | | (7.2)| | | 10.4 |  
Worldwide | | 2,871 | | | 2,885 | | | 2,614 | | | (0.5)| | | 10.4 |  
  
SPINE, SPORTS & OTHER

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,645 | | | 1,642 | | | 1,595 | | | 0.2 | | | 2.9 |  
International| | 1,198 | | | 1,256 | | | 1,104 | | | (4.6)| | | 13.8 |  
Worldwide | | 2,843 | | | 2,898 | | | 2,699 | | | (1.9)| | | 7.4 |  
Surgery| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 3,897 | | | 3,867 | | | 3,249 | | | 0.8 | | | 19.0 |  
International| | 5,793 | | | 5,945 | | | 4,983 | | | (2.6)| | | 19.3 |  
Worldwide | | 9,690 | | | 9,812 | | | 8,232 | | | (1.2)| | | 19.2 |  
  
ADVANCED

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,784 | | | 1,761 | | | 1,535 | | | 1.3 | | | 14.9 |  
International| | 2,785 | | | 2,861 | | | 2,304 | | | (2.6)| | | 24.1 |  
Worldwide | | 4,569 | | | 4,622 | | | 3,839 | | | (1.1)| | | 20.4 |  
  
GENERAL

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 2,113 | | | 2,105 | | | 1,714 | | | 0.4 | | | 22.7 |  
International| | 3,008 | | | 3,085 | | | 2,679 | | | (2.5)| | | 15.2 |  
Worldwide | | 5,121 | | | 5,190 | | | 4,392 | | | (1.3)| | | 18.1 |  
Vision| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,990 | | | 1,857 | | | 1,557 | | | 7.2 | | | 19.3 |  
International| | 2,859 | | | 2,831 | | | 2,362 | | | 1.0 | | | 19.8 |  
Worldwide | | 4,849 | | | 4,688 | | | 3,919 | | | 3.4 | | | 19.6 |  
  
CONTACT LENSES / OTHER

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 1,522 | | | 1,398 | | | 1,213 | | | 8.9 | | | 15.2 |  
International| | 2,022 | | | 2,043 | | | 1,781 | | | (1.0)| | | 14.7 |  
Worldwide | | 3,543 | | | 3,440 | | | 2,994 | | | 3.0 | | | 14.9 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

79  
  
* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
SURGICAL

| | | | | | | | | |  
U.S.| | 468 | | | 459 | | | 344 | | | 2.0 | | | 33.5 |  
International| | 837 | | | 788 | | | 581 | | | 6.2 | | | 35.7 |  
Worldwide | | 1,306 | | | 1,248 | | | 925 | | | 4.6 | | | 34.9 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
TOTAL MEDTECH| |  | |  | | | |  | |  
U.S.| | 13,377 | | | 12,686 | | | 11,036 | | | 5.4 | | | 14.9 |  
International| | 14,050 | | | 14,374 | | | 11,923 | | | (2.3)| | | 20.6 |  
Worldwide | | 27,427 | | | 27,060 | | | 22,959 | | | 1.4 | | | 17.9 |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
WORLDWIDE| |  | |  | |  | | | |  
U.S.| | 48,580 | | | 47,156 | | | 43,133 | | | 3.0 | | | 9.3 |  
International| | 46,363 | | | 46,619 | | | 39,451 | | | (0.6)| | | 18.2 |  
Worldwide | | $| 94,943 | | | 93,775 | | | 82,584 | | | 1.3 | %| | 13.6 |  
  
*Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation

**Percentage greater than 100% or not meaningful

(1)Approximately $0.4 billion in both the fiscal 2021 and 2020, of certain
international OTC products, primarily in China, were reclassified from the
Pharmaceutical segment to the Consumer Health segment based on operational
changes

(2) Inclusive of PROCRIT / EPREX which was previously disclosed separately

(3) Previously referred to as Medical Devices

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Income (Loss) Before Tax*| | Identifiable Assets  
(Dollars in Millions)| |

2022 (3)

| |

2021 (4)

| |

2020 (5)

| | 2022| | 2021  
Consumer Health| | $| 2,930 | | | 1,573 | | | (852)| | | $| 24,068 | | |
25,081 |  
Pharmaceutical| | 15,901 | | | 17,969 | | | 15,250 | | | 58,436 | | | 64,376 |  
MedTech| | 4,607 | | | 4,373 | | | 3,044 | | | 70,956 | | | 53,372 |  
Total| | 23,438 | | | 23,915 | | | 17,442 | | | 153,460 | | | 142,829 |  
  
Less: Expense not allocated to segments (1)

| | 624 | | | 1,072 | | | 945 | | | | |  
Less: Consumer Health separation costs| | 1,089 | | | 67 | | | | | | |  
  
General corporate (2)

| | | | | | | | 33,918 | | | 39,189 |  
Worldwide total| | $| 21,725 | | | 22,776 | | | 16,497 | | | $| 187,378 | | |
182,018 |  
  
*Income before tax of approximately $0.2 billion and $0.2 billion in the fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively, has been reclassified as certain international OTC products, primarily in China, were reclassified from the Pharmaceutical segment to the Consumer Health segment based on operational changes

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Additions to Property,  
Plant & Equipment| | Depreciation and  
Amortization  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Consumer Health| | $| 323 | | | 331 | | | 248 | | | $| 658 | | | 759 | | | 785
|  
Pharmaceutical| | 1,374 | | | 1,198 | | | 863 | | | 3,687 | | | 4,029 | | |
4,006 |  
MedTech| | 2,120 | | | 1,933 | | | 1,980 | | | 2,302 | | | 2,286 | | | 2,140 |  
Segments total| | 3,817 | | | 3,462 | | | 3,091 | | | 6,647 | | | 7,074 | | |
6,931 |  
General corporate| | 192 | | | 190 | | | 256 | | | 323 | | | 316 | | | 300 |  
Worldwide total| | $| 4,009 | | | 3,652 | | | 3,347 | | | $| 6,970 | | | 7,390
| | | 7,231 |  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

80  
  
* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | Sales to Customers | |

Long-Lived Assets (6)  
  
(Dollars in Millions)| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021  
United States| | $| 48,580 | | | 47,156 | | | 43,133 | | | $| 66,283 | | |
48,586 |  
Europe| | 23,449 | | | 23,594 | | | 18,980 | | | 38,774 | | | 43,257 |  
Western Hemisphere excluding U.S. | | 6,125 | | | 5,750 | | | 5,335 | | |
2,737 | | | 2,708 |  
Asia-Pacific, Africa| | 16,789 | | | 17,275 | | | 15,136 | | | 4,431 | | |
5,035 |  
Segments total| | 94,943 | | | 93,775 | | | 82,584 | | | 112,225 | | | 99,586
|  
General corporate| | | | | | | | 1,134 | | | 1,014 |  
Other non long-lived assets| | | | | | | | 74,019 | | | 81,418 |  
Worldwide total| | $| 94,943 | | | 93,775 | | | 82,584 | | | $| 187,378 | | |
182,018 |  
  
See Note 1 for a description of the segments in which the Company operates.

Export sales are not significant. In fiscal year 2022, the Company utilized
three wholesalers distributing products for all three segments that
represented approximately 16.5%, 13.0% and 12.0% of the total consolidated
revenues. In fiscal year 2021, the Company had three wholesalers distributing
products for all three segments that represented approximately 14.0%, 11.0%
and 11.0% of the total consolidated revenues. In fiscal year 2020, the Company
had three wholesalers distributing products for all three segments that
represented approximately 16.0%, 12.0%, and 12.0% of the total consolidated
revenues.

(1)Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income) expense and
general corporate (income) expense.

(2)General corporate includes cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities.

(3)Consumer Health includes:

•Litigation expense of $0.2 billion

•A restructuring related charge of $0.1 billion

Pharmaceutical includes:

•One-time COVID-19 Vaccine manufacturing exit related costs of $1.5 billion

•An intangible asset impairment charge of approximately $0.8 billion related
to an in-process research and development asset, bermekimab (JnJ-77474462), an
investigational drug for the treatment of Atopic Dermatitis (AD) and
Hidradenitis Suppurativa (HS) acquired with the acquisition of XBiotech, Inc.
in the fiscal year 2020. Additional information regarding efficacy of the AD
and HS indications became available which led the Company to the decision to
terminate the development of bermekimab for AD and HS

•Litigation expense of $0.1 billion

•Loss of $0.7 billion related to the change in the fair value of securities

•A restructuring related charge of $0.1 billion

MedTech includes:

•Litigation expense of $0.6 billion primarily for pelvic mesh related costs

•A restructuring related charge of $0.3 billion

•Acquisition and integration related costs of $0.3 billion primarily related
to the acquisition of Abiomed

•A Medical Device Regulation charge of $0.3 billion

(4) Consumer Health includes:

•Litigation expense of $1.6 billion, primarily talc related costs

•A restructuring related charge of $0.1 billion

Pharmaceutical includes:

•Litigation expense of $0.6 billion, primarily related to Risperdal
Gynecomastia

•Divestiture gains of $0.6 billion

•Gains of $0.5 billion related to the change in the fair value of securities

•A restructuring related charge of $0.1 billion

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

81  
  
* * *

  

MedTech includes:

•A restructuring related charge of $0.3 billion

•An in-process research and development expense of $0.9 billion related to
Ottava

•A Medical Device Regulation charge of $0.2 billion

•Litigation expense of $0.1 billion

(5) Consumer Health includes:

•Litigation expense of $3.9 billion, primarily talc related costs and certain
settlements.

Pharmaceutical includes:

•Litigation expense of $0.8 billion, primarily related to the agreement in
principle to settle opioid litigation

•A gain of $0.5 billion related to the change in the fair value of securities

•A restructuring related charge of $0.1 billion

MedTech includes:

•A contingent consideration reversal of $1.1 billion related to the timing of
certain developmental milestones associated with the Auris Health acquisition.

•Litigation expense of $0.3 billion

•A restructuring related charge of $0.3 billion

•An in-process research and development expense of $0.2 billion

•A Medical Device Regulation charge of $0.1 billion

(6) Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, net for fiscal
years 2022, and 2021 of $19,803 and $18,962, respectively, and intangible
assets and goodwill, net for fiscal years 2022 and 2021 of $93,556 and
$81,638, respectively.

  

18.Acquisitions and Divestitures

During the fiscal year 2022, certain businesses were acquired for $17.7
billion in cash and $1.1 billion of liabilities assumed. These acquisitions
were accounted for using the acquisition method and, accordingly, results of
operations have been included in the financial statements from their
respective dates of acquisition.

The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets
acquired amounted to $17.3 billion and has been assigned to identifiable
intangible assets, with any residual recorded to goodwill.

The fiscal year 2022 acquisitions primarily included Abiomed, Inc. (Abiomed).
The remaining acquisitions were not material.

On December 22, 2022, the Company completed the acquisition of Abiomed, a
leading, first-to-market provider of cardiovascular medical technology with a
first-in-kind portfolio for the treatment of coronary artery disease and heart
failure which also has an extensive innovation pipeline of life-saving
technologies. The transaction broadens the Company's position as a growing
cardiovascular innovator, advancing the standard of care in heart failure and
recovery, one of healthcare's largest areas of unmet need. The transaction was
accounted for as a business combination and the results of operations were
included in the MedTech segment as of the date of the acquisition. The
acquisition was completed through a tender offer for all outstanding shares.
The consideration paid in the acquisition consisted of an upfront payment of
$380.00 per share in cash, amounting to $17.1 billion, net of cash acquired,
as well as a non-tradeable contingent value right ("CVR") entitling the holder
to receive up to $35.00 per share in cash (which with respect to the CVRs
total approximately $1.6 billion in the aggregate) if certain commercial and
clinical milestones are achieved. The corresponding enterprise value (without
taking into account the CVRs) of approximately $16.5 billion includes cash,
cash equivalents and marketable securities acquired.

The milestones of the CVR consist of:

a.$17.50 per share, payable if net sales for Abiomed products exceeds $3.7
billion during Johnson & Johnson's fiscal second quarter of 2027 through
fiscal first quarter of 2028, or if this threshold is not met during this
period and is subsequently met during any rolling four quarter period up to
the end of Johnson & Johnson's fiscal first quarter of 2029, $8.75 per share;

b.$7.50 per share payable upon FDA premarket application approval of the use
of Impella® products in ST-elevated myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients
without cardiogenic shock by January 1, 2028; and

c.$10.00 per share payable upon the first publication of a Class I
recommendation for the use of Impella® products in high risk PCI or STEMI with
or without cardiogenic shock within four years from their respective clinical
endpoint publication dates, but in all cases no later than December 31, 2029.

  

The fair value of the acquisition was allocated to assets acquired of $19.9
billion (net of $0.3 billion cash acquired), primarily to goodwill for $10.9
billion, amortizable intangible assets for $6.6 billion, IPR&D for $1.1
billion, marketable

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

82  
  
* * *

  

securities of $0.6 billion and liabilities assumed of $2.8 billion, which
includes the fair value of the contingent consideration mentioned above for
$0.7 billion and deferred taxes of $1.8 billion. The goodwill is primarily
attributable to the commercial acceleration and expansion of the portfolio and
is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The contingent
consideration was recorded in Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet.

As the acquisition occurred in December 2022, the Company is still finalizing
the allocation of the purchase price to the individual assets acquired and
liabilities assumed. The allocation of the purchase price included in the
current period balance sheet is based on the best estimate of management and
is preliminary and subject to change. To assist management in the allocation,
the Company engaged valuation specialists to prepare appraisals. The Company
will finalize the amounts recognized as the information necessary to complete
the analysis is obtained. The Company expects to finalize these amounts as
soon as possible but no later than one year from the acquisition date.

The amortizable intangible assets were primarily comprised of already in-
market products of the Impella® platform with an average weighted life of 14
years. The IPR&D assets were valued for technology programs for unapproved
products. The value of the IPR&D was calculated using probability-adjusted
cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The
probability of success factor ranged from 52% to 70%. The discount rate
applied was 9.5%.

In 2022, the Company recorded acquisition related costs before tax of
approximately $0.3 billion, which was recorded in Other (income)/expense.

During fiscal year 2021, the Company did not make any material acquisitions.

During fiscal year 2020, certain businesses were acquired for $7.3 billion in
cash and $0.4 billion of liabilities assumed. These acquisitions were
accounted for using the acquisition method and, accordingly, results of
operations have been included in the financial statements from their
respective dates of acquisition.

The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets
acquired amounted to $7.5 billion and has been assigned to identifiable
intangible assets, with any residual recorded to goodwill.

The fiscal year 2020 acquisitions primarily included: all rights to the
investigational compound bermekimab, which has multiple dermatological
indications, along with certain employees from XBiotech Inc. (XBiotech),
Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Momenta), a company that discovers and develops
novel therapies for immune-mediated diseases and the outstanding shares in
Verb Surgical Inc., a company with significant robotics and data science
capabilities.

During the fiscal first quarter of 2020, the Company completed the acquisition
of all rights to the investigational compound bermekimab, which has multiple
dermatological indications, along with certain employees from XBiotech Inc.,
for a purchase price of $0.8 billion. The fair value of the acquisition was
allocated primarily to non-amortizable intangible assets, primarily IPR&D, for
$0.8 billion applying a probability of success factor that ranged from 20% to
60% to reflect inherent development, regulatory and commercial risk for the
different indications. The discount rate applied was approximately 16%. The
transaction was accounted for as a business combination and included in the
Pharmaceutical segment. In fiscal 2022, the Company recorded an intangible
asset impairment charge of approximately $0.8 billion related to this in-
process research and development asset.

Additionally, in the fiscal first quarter of 2020, the Company completed the
acquisition of all outstanding shares in Verb Surgical Inc., a company with
significant robotics and data science capabilities, including those shares
previously held by Verily. The transaction was accounted for as a business
combination and included in the MedTech segment. The fair value of the
acquisition was allocated primarily to non-amortizable intangible assets,
primarily IPR&D, for $0.4 billion, goodwill for $0.2 billion, other assets of
$0.2 billion and liabilities assumed of $0.3 billion. The fair value of the
Company's previously held equity investment in Verb Surgical Inc. was $0.4
billion.

On October 1, 2020, the Company completed the acquisition of Momenta for a
purchase price of approximately $6.1 billion, net of cash acquired. The fair
value of the acquisition was allocated primarily to non-amortizable intangible
assets (IPR&D) of $6.0 billion, goodwill of $1.2 billion, other assets of $0.5
billion and liabilities of $1.6 billion. The assets acquired are intended to
address substantial unmet medical need in maternal-fetal disorders, neuro-
inflammatory disorders, rheumatology, dermatology and autoimmune hematology.
Depending on the asset, probability of success factors ranging from 20% to 77%
were used in the fair value calculation to reflect inherent development and
regulatory risk of the IPR&D. The discount rate applied was approximately 13%.
The goodwill is primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise from the
business acquisition and is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The transaction was accounted for as a business combination and included in
the Pharmaceutical segment.

  

In accordance with U.S. GAAP standards related to business combinations, and
goodwill and other intangible assets, supplemental pro forma information for
fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020 is not provided, as the impact of the
aforementioned acquisitions did not have a material effect on the Company's
results of operations.

  

Divestitures

During fiscal year 2022, the Company did not make any material divestitures.

During fiscal year 2021, in separate transactions, the Company divested two
brands outside the U.S. within the Pharmaceutical segment. The Company
recognized a pre-tax gain recorded in Other (income) expense, net, of
approximately $0.6 billion.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

83  
  
* * *

  

During fiscal year 2020, the Company sold 11.8 million shares of Idorsia LTD
(Idorsia), or its 8.3% ownership in the company at that time. The transaction
resulted in gross proceeds of approximately CHF 337 million ($357 million)
based on a sales price of CHF 28.55/share and resulted in an immaterial net
loss. At the end of fiscal 2020, the Company had rights to approximately 38.7
million shares through a convertible loan with a principal amount of CHF 445
million (due June 2027). During fiscal year 2021, the Company converted CHF
110 million ($120 million) of this loan into approximately 9.6 million shares
of Idorsia which were reflected at fair value as of January 2, 2022. During
the fiscal third quarter of 2021, the Company's undrawn credit facility with
Idorsia was terminated.

  

19.Legal Proceedings

  

Johnson & Johnson and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various
lawsuits and claims regarding product liability; intellectual property;
commercial; indemnification and other matters; governmental investigations;
and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary
course of their business.

  

The Company records accruals for loss contingencies associated with these
legal matters when it is probable that a liability will be incurred, and the
amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. As of January 1, 2023, the
Company has determined that the liabilities associated with certain litigation
matters are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The Company has accrued
for these matters and will continue to monitor each related legal issue and
adjust accruals as might be warranted based on new information and further
developments in accordance with ASC 450-20-25. For these and other litigation
and regulatory matters discussed below for which a loss is probable or
reasonably possible, the Company is unable to estimate the possible loss or
range of loss beyond the amounts accrued. Amounts accrued for legal
contingencies often result from a complex series of judgments about future
events and uncertainties that rely heavily on estimates and assumptions
including timing of related payments. The ability to make such estimates and
judgments can be affected by various factors including, among other things,
whether damages sought in the proceedings are unsubstantiated or
indeterminate; scientific and legal discovery has not commenced or is not
complete; proceedings are in early stages; matters present legal
uncertainties; there are significant facts in dispute; procedural or
jurisdictional issues; the uncertainty and unpredictability of the number of
potential claims; ability to achieve comprehensive multi-party settlements;
complexity of related cross-claims and counterclaims; and/or there are
numerous parties involved. To the extent adverse awards, judgments or verdicts
have been rendered against the Company, the Company does not record an accrual
until a loss is determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated.

  

In the Company's opinion, based on its examination of these matters, its
experience to date and discussions with counsel, the ultimate outcome of legal
proceedings, net of liabilities accrued in the Company's balance sheet, is not
expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position. However, the resolution of, or increase in accruals for, one or more
of these matters in any reporting period may have a material adverse effect on
the Company's results of operations and cash flows for that period.

  

PRODUCT LIABILITY

The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in numerous product
liability claims and lawsuits involving multiple products. Claimants in these
cases seek substantial compensatory and, where available, punitive damages.
While the Company believes it has substantial defenses, it is not feasible to
predict the ultimate outcome of litigation. From time to time, even if it has
substantial defenses, the Company considers isolated settlements based on a
variety of circumstances. The Company has established accruals for product
liability claims and lawsuits in compliance with ASC 450-20 based on currently
available information, which in some cases may be limited. The Company accrues
an estimate of the legal defense costs needed to defend each matter when those
costs are probable and can be reasonably estimated. For certain of these
matters, the Company has accrued additional amounts such as estimated costs
associated with settlements, damages and other losses. Product liability
accruals can represent projected product liability for thousands of claims
around the world, each in different litigation environments and with different
fact patterns. Changes to the accruals may be required in the future as
additional information becomes available.

  

The most significant of these cases include: the DePuy ASR XL Acetabular
System and DePuy ASR Hip Resurfacing System; the PINNACLE Acetabular Cup
System; pelvic meshes; RISPERDAL; body powders containing talc, primarily
JOHNSON'S Baby Powder; ETHICON PHYSIOMESH Flexible Composite Mesh; ELMIRON;
and TYLENOL. As of January 1, 2023, in the United States there were
approximately 170 plaintiffs with direct claims in pending lawsuits regarding
injuries allegedly due to the DePuy ASR XL Acetabular System and DePuy ASR Hip
Resurfacing System; 1,400 with respect to the PINNACLE Acetabular Cup System;
9,000 with respect to pelvic meshes; 1,100 with respect to RISPERDAL; 40,300
with respect to body powders containing talc; 2,100 with respect to ETHICON
PHYSIOMESH Flexible Composite Mesh; 2,000 with respect to ELMIRON; and 170
with respect to TYLENOL. The number of pending lawsuits is expected to
fluctuate as certain lawsuits are settled or dismissed and additional lawsuits
are filed.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

84  
  
* * *

  

  

  

In August 2010, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy) announced a worldwide
voluntary recall of its ASR XL Acetabular System and DePuy ASR Hip Resurfacing
System (ASR Hip) used in hip replacement surgery. Claims for personal injury
have been made against DePuy and the Company. Cases filed in federal courts in
the United States have been organized as a multi-district litigation in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. Litigation has
also been filed in countries outside of the United States, primarily in the
United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Ireland, Germany, India and Italy. In
November 2013, DePuy reached an agreement with a Court-appointed committee of
lawyers representing ASR Hip plaintiffs to establish a program to settle
claims with eligible ASR Hip patients in the United States who had surgery to
replace their ASR Hips, known as revision surgery, as of August 2013. DePuy
reached additional agreements in February 2015 and March 2017, which further
extended the settlement program to include ASR Hip patients who had revision
surgeries after August 2013 and prior to February 15, 2017. This settlement
program has resolved more than 10,000 claims, thereby bringing to resolution
significant ASR Hip litigation activity in the United States. However,
lawsuits in the United States remain, and the settlement program does not
address litigation outside of the United States. In Australia, a class action
settlement was reached that resolved the claims of the majority of ASR Hip
patients in that country. In Canada, the Company has reached agreements to
settle the class actions filed in that country. The Company continues to
receive information with respect to potential additional costs associated with
this recall on a worldwide basis. The Company has established accruals for the
costs associated with the United States settlement program and ASR Hip-related
product liability litigation.

  

Claims for personal injury have also been made against DePuy Orthopaedics,
Inc. and the Company (collectively, DePuy) relating to the PINNACLE Acetabular
Cup System used in hip replacement surgery. Product liability lawsuits
continue to be filed, and the Company continues to receive information with
respect to potential costs and the anticipated number of cases. Most cases
filed in federal courts in the United States have been organized as a multi-
district litigation in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Texas (Texas MDL). Beginning on June 1, 2022, the Judicial Panel
on Multidistrict Litigation ceased transfer of new cases into the Texas MDL,
and there are now cases pending in federal court outside the Texas MDL.
Litigation also has been filed in state courts and in countries outside of the
United States. Prior to 2019, several adverse verdicts had been rendered
against DePuy, one of which was reversed on appeal and remanded for retrial.
During the first quarter of 2019, DePuy established a United States settlement
program to resolve these cases. As part of the settlement program, adverse
verdicts have been settled. The Company has established an accrual for product
liability litigation associated with the PINNACLE Acetabular Cup System and
the related settlement program.

  

Claims for personal injury have been made against Ethicon, Inc. (Ethicon) and
the Company arising out of Ethicon's pelvic mesh devices used to treat stress
urinary incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse. The Company continues to
receive information with respect to potential costs and additional cases.
Cases filed in federal courts in the United States had been organized as a
multi-district litigation (MDL) in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of West Virginia. In March 2021, the MDL Court entered an
order closing the MDL. The MDL Court has remanded cases for trial to the
jurisdictions where the case was originally filed and additional pelvic mesh
lawsuits have been filed, and remain, outside of the MDL. The Company has
settled or otherwise resolved the majority of the United States cases and the
estimated costs associated with these settlements and the remaining cases are
reflected in the Company's accruals. In addition, class actions and individual
personal injury cases or claims seeking damages for alleged injury resulting
from Ethicon's pelvic mesh devices have been commenced in various countries
outside of the United States, including claims and cases in the United
Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, Spain and Slovenia
and class actions in Israel, Australia, Canada and South Africa. In November
2019, the Federal Court of Australia issued a judgment regarding its findings
with respect to liability in relation to the three Lead Applicants and
generally in relation to the design, manufacture, pre and post-market
assessments and testing, and supply and promotion of the devices in Australia
used to treat stress urinary incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse. In
September 2022, after exhausting its appeals, the Company reached an in-
principle agreement to resolve the two pelvic mesh class actions in Australia,
pending Federal Court approval. In November 2022, the application for approval
of the settlement was filed, and a hearing on the settlement has been
scheduled for the end of February 2023. The class actions in Canada were
discontinued in 2020 as a result of a settlement of a group of cases and an
agreement to resolve the Israeli class action was reached in May 2021. The
parties in the Israeli class action are currently finalizing the terms of the
settlement. A motion to approve the settlement was filed with the Court. The
Company has established accruals with respect to product liability litigation
associated with Ethicon's pelvic mesh products.

  

Following a June 2016 worldwide market withdrawal of ETHICON PHYSIOMESH
Flexible Composite Mesh (Physiomesh), claims for personal injury have been
made against Ethicon, Inc. (Ethicon) and the Company alleging personal injury
arising out of the use of this hernia mesh device. Cases filed in federal
courts in the United States have been organized as a multi-district litigation
(MDL) in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Georgia. A multi-county litigation (MCL) also has been formed in New Jersey
state court and assigned to Atlantic County for cases pending in New Jersey.
In addition to the matters in the MDL and MCL, there are additional lawsuits
pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

85  
  
* * *

  

of Ohio, which are part of the MDL for polypropylene mesh devices manufactured
by C.R. Bard, Inc., and lawsuits pending in two New Jersey MCLs formed for
Proceed/Proceed Ventral Patch and Prolene Hernia systems, and lawsuits pending
outside the United States. In May 2021, Ethicon and lead counsel for the
plaintiffs entered into a term sheet to resolve approximately 3,600 Physiomesh
cases (covering approximately 4,300 plaintiffs) pending in the MDL and MCL at
that time. A master settlement agreement (MSA) was entered into in September
2021 and includes 3,729 cases in the MDL and MCL. All deadlines and trial
settings in those proceedings are currently stayed pending the completion of
the settlement agreement. Of the cases subject to the MSA, 2,236 have been
dismissed with prejudice. Post-settlement cases in the Physiomesh MDL and MCL
are subject to docket control orders requiring early expert reports and
discovery requirements. As of January 2023, there are approximately 208 active
cases subject to these orders which are being reviewed and evaluated.

  

Claims have also been filed against Ethicon and the Company alleging personal
injuries arising from the PROCEED Mesh and PROCEED Ventral Patch hernia mesh
products. In March 2019, the New Jersey Supreme Court entered an order
consolidating these cases pending in New Jersey as an MCL in Atlantic County
Superior Court. Additional cases have been filed in various federal and state
courts in the United States, and in jurisdictions outside the United States.

  

Ethicon and the Company also have been subject to claims for personal injuries
arising from the PROLENE Polypropylene Hernia System. In January 2020, the New
Jersey Supreme Court created an MCL in Atlantic County Superior Court to
handle such cases. Cases involving this product have also been filed in other
federal and state courts in the United States.

  

In October 2022, an agreement in principle, subject to various conditions, was
reached to settle the majority of the pending cases involving Proceed, Proceed
Ventral Patch, Prolene Hernia System and related multi-layered mesh products.
All litigation activities in the two New Jersey MCLs are stayed pending
resolution of the proposed settlement. Future cases that are filed in the New
Jersey MCLs will be subject to docket control orders requiring early expert
reports and discovery requirements.

  

The Company has established accruals with respect to product liability
litigation associated with ETHICON PHYSIOMESH Flexible Composite Mesh, PROCEED
Mesh and PROCEED Ventral Patch, and PROLENE Polypropylene Hernia System
products.

  

Claims for personal injury have been made against Janssen Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. and the Company arising out of the use of RISPERDAL, and related
compounds, indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute manic or mixed
episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and irritability associated with
autism. Lawsuits primarily have been filed in state courts in Pennsylvania,
California, and Missouri. Other actions are pending in various courts in the
United States and Canada. Product liability lawsuits continue to be filed, and
the Company continues to receive information with respect to potential costs
and the anticipated number of cases. The Company has successfully defended a
number of these cases but there have been verdicts against the Company,
including a verdict in October 2019 of $8.0 billion of punitive damages
related to one plaintiff, which the trial judge reduced to $6.8 million in
January 2020. In September 2021, the Company entered into a settlement in
principle with the counsel representing plaintiffs in this matter and in
substantially all of the outstanding cases in the United States. The costs
associated with this and other settlements are reflected in the Company's
accruals.

  

Claims for personal injury arising out of the use of XARELTO, an oral
anticoagulant, have been made against Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (JPI); the
Company; and JPI's collaboration partner for XARELTO, Bayer Healthcare AG, and
certain of its affiliates. Cases filed in federal courts in the United States
have been organized as a multi-district litigation in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. In addition, cases were
filed in state courts across the United States. Many of these cases were
consolidated into a state mass tort litigation in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
and in a coordinated proceeding in Los Angeles, California. Class action
lawsuits also have been filed in Canada. In March 2019, JPI and the Company
announced an agreement in principle to settle the XARELTO cases in the United
States; the settlement agreement was executed in May 2019, the settlement
became final in December 2019, and the settlement was funded in January 2020.
This resolved the majority of cases pending in the United States. The Company
has established accruals for its costs associated with the United States
settlement program and XARELTO related product liability litigation.

  

A significant number of personal injury claims alleging that talc causes
cancer were made against Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. and the Company
arising out of the use of body powders containing talc, primarily JOHNSON'S
Baby Powder. The number of these personal injury lawsuits, filed in state and
federal courts in the United States as well as outside of the United States,
continued to increase.

  

In talc cases that previously have gone to trial, the Company has obtained a
number of defense verdicts, but there also have been verdicts against the
Company, many of which have been reversed on appeal. In June 2020, the
Missouri Court of Appeals reversed in part and affirmed in part a July 2018
verdict of $4.7 billion in Ingham v. Johnson & Johnson, et al., No. ED 207476
(Mo. App.), reducing the overall award to $2.1 billion. An application for
transfer of the case to the Missouri Supreme Court

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

86  
  
* * *

  

was subsequently denied and in June 2021, a petition for certiorari, seeking a
review of the Ingham decision by the United States Supreme Court, was denied.
In June 2021, the Company paid the award, which, including interest, totaled
approximately $2.5 billion. The facts and circumstances, including the terms
of the award, were unique to the Ingham decision and not representative of
other claims brought against the Company. The Company continues to believe
that it has strong legal grounds to contest the other talc verdicts that it
has appealed. Notwithstanding the Company's confidence in the safety of its
talc products, in certain circumstances the Company has settled cases.

  

In October 2021, Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. (Old JJCI) implemented a
corporate restructuring (the 2021 Corporate Restructuring). As a result of
that restructuring, Old JJCI ceased to exist and three new entities were
created: (a) LTL Management LLC, a North Carolina limited liability company
(LTL or Debtor); (b) Royalty A&M LLC, a North Carolina limited liability
company and a direct subsidiary of LTL (RAM); and (c) the Debtor's direct
parent, Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc., a New Jersey company (New JJCI). The
Debtor received certain of Old JJCI's assets and became solely responsible for
the talc-related liabilities of Old JJCI, including all liabilities related in
any way to injury or damage, or alleged injury or damage, sustained or
incurred in the purchase or use of, or exposure to, talc, including talc
contained in any product, or to the risk of, or responsibility for, any such
damage or injury, except for any liabilities for which the exclusive remedy is
provided under a workers' compensation statute or act (the Talc-Related
Liabilities).

  

In October 2021, notwithstanding the Company's confidence in the safety of its
talc products, the Debtor filed a voluntary petition with the United States
Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of North Carolina, Charlotte
Division, seeking relief under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code (the LTL
Bankruptcy Case). As a result of the LTL Bankruptcy Case, the North Carolina
Bankruptcy Court entered a temporary restraining order staying all litigation
against LTL and Old JJCI. On November 15, 2021, the North Carolina Bankruptcy
Court confirmed the scope of the stay, issuing a Preliminary Injunction (PI)
prohibiting and enjoining the commencement and prosecution of talc-related
claims against LTL, Old JJCI, New JJCI, the Company, other of their corporate
affiliates, identified retailers, insurance companies, and certain other
parties (the Protected Parties). The LTL Bankruptcy Case was transferred to
the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey in November
2021, and that court extended the PI through the end of February 2022.
Claimants filed motions to dismiss the LTL Bankruptcy Case and, following a
multiple day hearing, the New Jersey Bankruptcy Court denied those motions by
order issued in March 2022. The New Jersey Bankruptcy Court simultaneously
issued another order extending the stay as to the Protected Parties. The
claimants subsequently filed notices of appeal as to the denial of the motions
to dismiss and the extension of the stay. In May 2022, the Third Circuit Court
of Appeals granted the petitions to appeal. The briefing and oral argument on
the appeal were completed in September 2022. On January 30, 2023, the Third
Circuit reversed the Bankruptcy Court's ruling and remanded to the Bankruptcy
Court to dismiss the LTL bankruptcy. LTL filed a petition for rehearing on the
decision.

  

While the New Jersey Bankruptcy Court's order effectively stays all of the
Company's talc-related personal injury litigation, LTL has agreed to lift the
stay on a small number of appeals where appeal bonds have been filed.

  

The Company has agreed to provide funding to LTL for the payment of amounts
the New Jersey Bankruptcy Court determines are owed by LTL and the
establishment of a $2 billion trust in furtherance of this purpose. The
Company has established a reserve for approximately $2 billion in connection
with the aforementioned trust. After and as a result of the filing of the LTL
Bankruptcy Case, the Company de-consolidated LTL, which is a related party.
The impact of the de-consolidation is not material to the Company. The parties
have not yet reached a resolution of all talc matters in the LTL Bankruptcy
Case, and the Company is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss
beyond the amount accrued.

  

A class action advancing claims relating to industrial talc was filed against
the Company and others in New Jersey state court in May 2022 (the Edley Class
Action). The Edley Class Action asserts, among other things, that the Company
fraudulently defended past asbestos personal injury lawsuits arising from
exposure to industrial talc mined, milled, and manufactured before January 6,
1989 by the Company's then wholly owned subsidiary, Windsor Minerals, Inc.,
which is currently a debtor in the Imerys Bankruptcy described hereafter. The
Company removed the Edley Class Action to federal court in the District of New
Jersey. In July 2022, Imerys filed a motion in the Imerys Bankruptcy to stay
the Edley Class Action, which was denied in August 2022. In October 2022, the
Company filed motions to dismiss and to deny certification of a class to
pursue the Edley Class Action in the New Jersey District Court.

  

In February 2019, the Company's talc supplier, Imerys Talc America, Inc. and
two of its affiliates, Imerys Talc Vermont, Inc. and Imerys Talc Canada, Inc.
(collectively, Imerys) filed a voluntary petition under chapter 11 of the
United States Code (the Bankruptcy Code) in the United States Bankruptcy Court
for the District of Delaware (Imerys Bankruptcy). The Imerys Bankruptcy
relates to Imerys's potential liability for personal injury from exposure to
talcum powder sold by Imerys. In its bankruptcy, Imerys alleges it has claims
against the Company for indemnification and rights to joint insurance
proceeds. In May 2020, Imerys, its parent Imerys S.A., the Tort Claimants'
Committee (TCC), and the Future Claimants' Representative (FCR) (collectively,
the Plan Proponents) filed their Plan of Reorganization (the Plan) and the
Disclosure Statement related

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

87  
  
* * *

  

thereto. The Plan Proponents have since filed numerous amendments to the Plan
and Disclosure Statement. A hearing on the Plan Proponent's Disclosure
Statement was held in January 2021, and the Court entered an order approving
the Disclosure Statement, allowing Imerys to proceed with soliciting votes on
the Plan.

  

In March 2021, the Company voted to reject the Plan and opted out of the
consensual releases in the Plan. In April 2021, the Plan Proponents announced
the Plan had received the requisite number of accepting votes to confirm the
Plan. The Company challenged certain improprieties with respect to portions of
the vote and sought to disqualify those votes. In October 2021, the Bankruptcy
Court issued a ruling deeming thousands of votes as withdrawn.

  

In October 2021, Imerys cancelled the confirmation hearing on the Plan.
Imerys, the TCC, the FCR, certain of Imerys's insurers, and certain parties in
the Cyprus Mines chapter 11 case (described below) (collectively the Mediation
Parties) agreed to engage in mediation. The most recent term of the mediation
ended on December 31, 2022.

  

In July 2021, Imerys commenced an adversary proceeding against the Company in
the Imerys Bankruptcy (the Imerys Adversary Proceeding). The Imerys Adversary
Proceeding sought, among other things, certain declarations with respect to
the indemnification obligations allegedly owed by the Company to Imerys. The
TCC and FCR simultaneously filed a motion for temporary restraining order and
preliminary injunction seeking to enjoin the Company from undergoing a
corporate restructuring that would separate the Company's talc liabilities
from its other assets. The Bankruptcy Court denied the motion. The Company
thereafter filed a motion to dismiss the adversary proceeding. The Bankruptcy
Court has not yet decided the motion to dismiss. In October 2021, the Company
filed a Notice of Bankruptcy Filing and Stay of Proceedings clarifying that
the automatic stay arising upon the filing of the LTL Bankruptcy Case should
apply to the Imerys Adversary Proceeding.

  

In June 2020, Cyprus Mines Corporation and its parent, Cyprus Amax Minerals
Company (CAMC) (together, Cyprus), which had owned certain Imerys talc mines,
filed an adversary proceeding against the Company and Imerys in the Imerys
Bankruptcy seeking a declaration of indemnity rights under certain contractual
agreements (the Cyprus Adversary Proceeding). The Company denies such
indemnification is owed, and filed a motion to dismiss the adversary
complaint. In February 2021, Cyprus filed a voluntary petition for relief
under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and filed its Disclosure Statement and
Plan (the Cyprus Plan). The Cyprus Plan contemplates a settlement with Imerys
and talc claimants where Cyprus would make a monetary contribution to a trust
established under the Imerys Plan in exchange for an injunction against talc
claims asserted against it and certain protected parties. Cyprus has not yet
sought approval of its Disclosure Statement and Plan. Cyprus, along with the
TCC and FCR appointed in the Cyprus chapter 11 case, have agreed to
participate in the mediation with the Mediation Parties. In October 2021, the
Company filed a Notice of Bankruptcy Filing and Stay of Proceedings clarifying
that the automatic stay arising upon the filing of the LTL Bankruptcy Case
should apply to the Cyprus Adversary Proceeding. In June 2022, Cyprus
commenced an Adversary Proceeding in its chapter 11 case seeking an order
enforcing the automatic stay by enjoining parties from commencing or
continuing "talc-related claims" against CAMC. In June 2022, the court entered
a preliminary injunction order enjoining claimants from pursuing talc-related
claims against CAMC through January 2023.

  

In February 2021, several of the Company's insurers involved in coverage
litigation in New Jersey State Court (the Coverage Action) filed a motion in
the Imerys Bankruptcy Court proceeding seeking a determination that the
automatic stay does not apply to the Coverage Action and, in the alternative,
seeking relief from the automatic stay to allow them to continue to litigate
their claims in the Coverage Action. In March 2021, the Company filed a
limited response and reservation of rights with respect to the motion. The
Court entered an agreed order modifying the stay to allow the litigation in
the Coverage Action to continue. In October 2021, LTL filed a Notice of
Bankruptcy Filing and Stay of Proceedings clarifying that the automatic stay
arising upon the filing of the LTL Bankruptcy Case should apply to the
Coverage Action. In March 2022, the New Jersey Bankruptcy Court ruled that the
LTL automatic stay applied to the Coverage Action.

  

In February 2018, a securities class action lawsuit was filed against the
Company and certain named officers in the United States District Court for the
District of New Jersey, alleging that the Company violated the federal
securities laws by failing to disclose alleged asbestos contamination in body
powders containing talc, primarily JOHNSON'S Baby Powder, and that purchasers
of the Company's shares suffered losses as a result. Plaintiff is seeking
damages. In April 2019, the Company moved to dismiss the complaint and
briefing on the motion was complete as of August 2019. In December 2019, the
Court denied, in part, the motion to dismiss. In March 2020, the Company
answered the complaint. In April 2021, briefing on Plaintiff's motion for
class certification was completed. In July 2021, the Company filed a notice of
supplemental authority in opposition to Plaintiff's motion for class
certification, and Plaintiff filed a response. In December 2021, the Company
filed a motion to supplement the class certification record, and in January
2022, Plaintiff responded. In March 2022, LTL asked the New Jersey Bankruptcy
Court to stay the securities class action. In April 2022, Defendants filed a
second motion to supplement the class certification record. In May 2022, the
New Jersey Bankruptcy Court entered an order staying the securities class
action. Plaintiff has appealed the Bankruptcy Court's order.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

88  
  
* * *

  

A lawsuit was brought against the Company in the Superior Court of California
for the County of San Diego alleging violations of California's Consumer Legal
Remedies Act (CLRA) relating to JOHNSON'S Baby Powder. In that lawsuit, the
plaintiffs allege that the Company violated the CLRA by failing to provide
required Proposition 65 warnings. In July 2019, the Company filed a notice of
removal to the United States District Court for the Southern District of
California and plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint shortly thereafter.
In October 2019, the Company moved to dismiss the second amended complaint for
failure to state a claim upon which relief may be granted. In response to
those motions, plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint. In December 2019,
the Company moved to dismiss the third amended complaint for failure to state
a claim upon which relief may be granted. In April 2020, the Court granted the
motion to dismiss but granted leave to amend. In May 2020, plaintiffs filed a
Fourth Amended Complaint but indicated that they would be filing a motion for
leave to file a fifth amended complaint. Plaintiffs filed a Fifth Amended
Complaint in August 2020. The Company moved to dismiss the Fifth Amended
Complaint for failure to state a claim upon which relief may be granted. In
January 2021, the Court issued an Order and opinion ruling in the Company's
favor and granting the motion to dismiss with prejudice. In February 2021,
Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal with the Ninth Circuit. Plaintiffs filed
their opening brief in July 2021. The company filed its responsive brief in
October 2021. In October 2021, Notice of Suggestion of Bankruptcy was filed
with the Ninth Circuit. A bankruptcy stay was imposed in December 2021, and
the Court held the reply deadline in abeyance. In February 2022, the
Bankruptcy Court issued an order extending the stay. The appeal continues to
be held in abeyance, with the Company being required to file periodic status
updates.

  

In addition, the Company has received inquiries, subpoenas, and requests to
produce documents regarding talc matters and the LTL Bankruptcy Case from
various governmental authorities. The Company has produced documents and
responded to inquiries, and will continue to cooperate with government
inquiries.

  

Claims for personal injury have been made against a number of Johnson &
Johnson companies, including Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the Company,
arising out of the use of INVOKANA, a prescription medication indicated to
improve glycemic control in adults with Type 2 diabetes. In December 2016,
lawsuits filed in federal courts in the United States were organized as a
multi-district litigation in the United States District Court for the District
of New Jersey. Cases have also been filed in state courts. Class action
lawsuits have been filed in Canada. Product liability lawsuits continue to be
filed, and the Company continues to receive information with respect to
potential costs and the anticipated number of cases. The Company has settled
or otherwise resolved many of the cases and claims in the United States and
the costs associated with these settlements are reflected in the Company's
accruals.

  

Claims for personal injury have been made against a number of Johnson &
Johnson companies, including Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the Company,
arising out of the use of ELMIRON, a prescription medication indicated for the
relief of bladder pain or discomfort associated with interstitial cystitis.
These lawsuits, which allege that ELMIRON contributes to the development of
permanent retinal injury and vision loss, have been filed in both state and
federal courts across the United States. In December 2020, lawsuits filed in
federal courts in the United States, including putative class action cases
seeking medical monitoring, were organized as a multi-district litigation in
the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. In addition,
cases have been filed in various state courts of New Jersey, which have been
coordinated in a multi-county litigation in Bergen County, as well as the
Court of Common Pleas in Philadelphia, which have been coordinated and granted
mass tort designation. In addition, three class action lawsuits have been
filed in Canada. Product liability lawsuits continue to be filed, and the
Company continues to receive information with respect to potential costs and
the anticipated number of cases. The Company has established accruals for
defense and indemnity costs associated with ELMIRON related product liability
litigation.

  

Claims for personal injury have been made against Johnson and Johnson Consumer
Inc. (JJCI), arising out of the use of TYLENOL, an over-the-counter pain
medication, alleging that prenatal exposure to acetaminophen is associated
with the development of autism spectrum disorder and/or attention-
deficit/hyperactivity disorder. In October 2022, lawsuits filed in federal
courts in the United States were organized as a multi-district litigation in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. In
addition, lawsuits have been filed in Canada. Product liability lawsuits
continue to be filed, and the Company continues to receive information with
respect to potential costs and the anticipated number of cases. The Company
has established accruals for defense costs associated with TYLENOL related
product liability litigation.

  

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Certain subsidiaries of the Company are subject, from time to time, to legal
proceedings and claims related to patent, trademark and other intellectual
property matters arising out of their businesses. Many of these matters
involve challenges to the coverage and/or validity of the patents on various
products and allegations that certain of the Company's products infringe the
patents of third parties. Although these subsidiaries believe that they have
substantial defenses to these challenges and allegations with respect to all
significant patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these
matters. A loss in any of these cases could adversely affect the ability of
these subsidiaries to sell their products, result in loss of sales due to loss
of market exclusivity,

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

89  
  
* * *

  

require the payment of past damages and future royalties, and may result in a
non-cash impairment charge for any associated intangible asset. Significant
matters are described below.

  

MedTech

  

In August 2018, Intuitive Surgical, Inc. and Intuitive Surgical Operations,
Inc. (collectively, Intuitive) filed a patent infringement suit against Auris
Health, Inc. (Auris) in United States District Court for the District of
Delaware. In the suit, Intuitive alleges willful infringement of U.S. Patent
Nos. 6,522,906 ('906); 6,800,056 ('056); 8,142,447 ('447); and 9,452,276
('276) based on Auris' MONARCH Platform. Auris filed IPR Petitions with the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) regarding the '056, '447, '276 and
'906 patents. In December 2019, the USPTO denied review of the '056 patent. In
February and March 2020, the USPTO instituted review of the '447, and '906
patents and denied review of the '276 patent. In March 2021, the USPTO ruled
that the challenged claims of the '447 and '906 patents are not invalid. Auris
appealed, and in April 2022, the United States Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit vacated the decision that the '447 patent was not invalid and
remanded the decision to the USPTO for further review. In May 2022, the United
States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit confirmed the ruling that
claim 53 of the '906 patent was not invalid, vacated the decision that the
remaining claims of the '906 patent were not invalid and remanded the decision
to the USPTO for further review. Auris filed a request for reexamination of
the '276 patent in November 2021, and in January 2022, the USPTO granted the
reexamination request. Trial is scheduled to begin in September 2023.

  

In August 2019, RSB Spine LLC (RSB Spine) filed a patent infringement suit
against DePuy Synthes, Inc. in the United States District Court for the
District of Delaware. In October 2019, RSB Spine amended the complaint to
change the named defendants to DePuy Synthes Sales, Inc. and DePuy Synthes
Products, Inc. In the suit, RSB Spine alleges willful infringement of U.S.
Patent Nos. 6,984,234 ('234) and 9,713,537 ('537) by one or more of the
following products: ZERO-P-VA Spacer, ZERO-P Spacer, ZERO-P NATURAL Plate,
SYNFIX LR Spacer and SYNFIX Evolution System. RSB Spine seeks monetary damages
and injunctive relief. In November 2019, the suit was consolidated for pre-
trial purposes with other patent infringement suits brought by RSB Spine in
the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Life
Spine, Inc., Medacta USA, Inc., and Precision Spine, Inc. In June 2022, DePuy
filed potentially dispositive summary judgment motions that the '234 patent is
invalid as anticipated and the '537 patent is not infringed. In November 2022,
the Court granted DePuy's summary judgment motion that the '234 patent is
invalid as anticipated and denied DePuy's motion that the '537 patent is not
infringed. In December 2022, the Court conducted a jury trial on the '537
patent where the jury found that the '537 patent was not literally infringed,
but that DePuy infringed under the doctrine of equivalents (DOE). The jury
awarded RSB $12 million in damages subject to post-trial motions and appeals.

  

In October 2020, Rasmussen Instruments, LLC (Rasmussen) filed a patent
infringement suit against DePuy Synthes Products, Inc., DePuy Synthes Sales,
Inc. and Medical Device Business Services, Inc. (collectively, DePuy) in the
United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Rasmussen
alleges that DePuy willfully infringes U.S. Patent Nos. 9,492,180 ('180) and
10,517,583 ('583) by making and selling the Attune Balanced Sizer. In April
2021, Rasmussen sought permission to amend its infringement contentions to
allege that DePuy also willfully infringes the '583 patent by making and
selling the Attune Balancing Blocks. Rasmussen seeks treble damages for
willful infringement. Trial concluded in March 2022, with the jury returning a
verdict in favor of Rasmussen, finding willful infringement of the '180
patent, and awarding damages in the amount of $20 million. DePuy challenged
the verdict in its post-trial motions. In July 2022, a hearing was held on the
post-trial motions.

  

Pharmaceutical

Litigation Against Filers of Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs)

  

The following summarizes lawsuits the Company's subsidiaries have brought
against generic companies that have filed ANDAs with the U.S. FDA or
undertaken similar regulatory processes outside of the United States, seeking
to market generic forms of products sold by various subsidiaries of the
Company prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products.
These ANDAs typically include allegations of non-infringement and invalidity
of the applicable patents. The Inter Partes Review (IPR) process with the
USPTO, created under the 2011 America Invents Act, is also being used at times
by generic companies in conjunction with ANDAs and lawsuits, to challenge the
applicable patents. In the event the Company's subsidiaries are not successful
in an action, or the automatic statutory stay of the ANDAs expires before the
United States District Court rulings are obtained, the generic companies
involved would have the ability, upon approval of the U.S. FDA, to introduce
generic versions of their products to the market, resulting in the potential
for substantial market share and revenue losses for the applicable products,
and which may result in a non-cash impairment charge in any associated
intangible asset. In addition, from time to time, the Company's subsidiaries
may settle these types of actions and such settlements can involve the
introduction of generic versions of the products at issue to the market prior
to the expiration of the relevant patents.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

90  
  
* * *

  

ZYTIGA

  

Beginning in January 2019, Janssen Inc., Janssen Oncology, Inc., and BTG
International Ltd. (collectively, Janssen) initiated Statements of Claim under
Section 6 of the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations in
Canada against Apotex Inc. (Apotex), Pharmascience Inc. (Pharmascience) and
Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, Inc.
(collectively, DRL) in response to those parties' filing of Abbreviated New
Drug Submissions (ANDS) seeking approval to market generic versions of ZYTIGA
before the expiration of the Canadian Patent No. 2,661,422 ('422). The trial
in these actions concluded in November 2020, and the Court issued a decision
holding the '422 patent invalid in January 2021. In February 2021, Janssen
appealed the decision. The appeal hearing took place in September 2022. In
November 2022, Janssen's appeal was dismissed.

  

In April 2021, July 2021 and April 2022, respectively, Apotex, DRL and
Pharmascience initiated Statements of Claim under Section 8 of the Patented
Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations against Janssen seeking damages
in respect of those parties generic Zytiga tablets. Trials against Apotex and
DRL are scheduled for June 2023. A trial date for the Pharmascience action has
not been set.

  

XARELTO

  

Beginning in March 2021, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (JPI) and Bayer Pharma
AG and Bayer AG (collectively, Bayer) filed patent infringement lawsuits in
the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against a number
of generic companies who filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic
versions of XARELTO (2.5 mg) before expiration of U.S. Patent No. 10,828,310
('310). The following generic drug companies are named defendants: Dr. Reddy's
Laboratories, Inc. and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, Ltd.; Lupin Limited and Lupin
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Taro
Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc.; and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. In October
2021, the court consolidated the Delaware lawsuits for all purposes, including
trial. Trial for the consolidated Delaware lawsuits is scheduled to begin in
May 2023.

  

In July 2021, JPI and Bayer filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia against Mylan
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Mylan Inc. (collectively, Mylan) which filed an ANDA
seeking approval to market a generic version of XARELTO (2.5 mg) before
expiration of the '310 patent. In August 2021, JPI and Bayer filed a motion
before the United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (the MDL
panel) to transfer this lawsuit to the United States District Court for the
District of Delaware for coordinated and consolidated pretrial proceedings. In
December 2021, the MDL panel granted the motion. In August 2022, after
receiving a second notice letter from Mylan regarding the same ANDA, JPI and
Bayer filed a second patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of West Virginia against Mylan. In September
2022, Mylan moved to dismiss the second lawsuit. In September 2022, the MDL
panel transferred the second lawsuit to the District of Delaware. No trial
date has been set for these two lawsuits. In October 2022, Mylan voluntarily
withdrew its motion to dismiss.

  

In each of these lawsuits, JPI and Bayer are seeking an order enjoining
defendants from marketing their generic version of XARELTO (2.5 mg) before the
expiration of the '310 patent. In January 2023, the court issued an order
staying the lawsuits until after a final written decision is issued in the
Inter Partes Review proceedings on the '310 patent.

  

In February 2022, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. filed a Petition for Inter Partes
Review (IPR) with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO),
seeking to invalidate the '310 patent. In August 2022, the Patent Trial and
Appeal Board (PTAB) issued a decision instituting IPR.

  

In September 2022, InvaGen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. filed a Petition for IPR with
the USPTO seeking to invalidate the '310 patent. Also in September 2022, Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. filed a Petition for IPR with the USPTO seeking to
invalidate the '310 patent. In October 2022, the PTAB issued decisions
instituting IPR in both proceedings and joining them with the earlier IPR
proceeding filed by Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc.

  

In September 2022, JPI, Bayer, and Bayer Intellectual Property GmbH (BIP)
initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court
for the District of New Jersey against USV Private Limited (USV), who filed an
ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of XARELTO (2.5 mg, 10 mg, 15
mg, and 20 mg) before the expiration of the '310 patent and U.S. Patent No.
9,539,218 ('218). JPI, Bayer, and BIP are seeking an order enjoining USV from
marketing its generic version of XARELTO (2.5 mg) before the expiration of the
'310 patent, and its generic versions of XARELTO (10 mg, 15 mg, and 20 mg)
before the expiration of the '218 patent. In November 2022, the MDL panel
transferred this lawsuit to the United States District Court for the District
of Delaware.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

91  
  
* * *

  

In September 2022, JPI, Bayer AG, and BIP initiated a patent infringement
lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
against Mankind Pharma Limited (Mankind), who filed an ANDA seeking approval
to market generic versions of XARELTO (10 mg, 15 mg, and 20 mg) before the
expiration of the '218 patent. JPI, Bayer AG, and BIP are seeking an order
enjoining Mankind from marketing its generic versions of XARELTO before the
expiration of the '218 patent.

  

In November 2022, JPI, Bayer, and BIP initiated a patent infringement lawsuit
in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Epic
Pharma, LLC (Epic), who filed an ANDA seeking approval to market generic
versions of XARELTO (2.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, and 20 mg) before the expiration of
the '310 patent and the '218 patent. JPI, Bayer, and BIP are seeking an order
enjoining Epic from marketing its generic version of XARELTO (2.5 mg) before
the expiration of the '310 patent, and its generic versions of XARELTO (10 mg,
15 mg, and 20 mg) before the expiration of the '218 patent.

  

In December 2022, JPI and Bayer initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the
United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Apotex Inc.
and Apotex Corp. (collectively, Apotex), who filed an ANDA seeking approval to
market generic versions of XARELTO (2.5 mg) before the expiration of the '310
patent. JPI and Bayer are seeking an order enjoining Apotex from marketing its
generic version of XARELTO (2.5 mg) before the expiration of the '310 patent.

  

OPSUMIT

  

In May 2020, Janssen Inc. (Janssen) and Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd
(Actelion) initiated a Statement of Claim under Section 6 of the Patented
Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations against Sandoz Canada Inc.
(Sandoz) in Canada in response to Sandoz's filing of an ANDS seeking approval
to market a generic version of OPSUMIT 10 mg, before the expiration of
Canadian Patent No. 2,659,770 ('770). Sandoz stipulated to infringement of the
'770 patent. Trial against Sandoz on the issue of validity concluded in
February 2022, and in May 2022, the Court issued a decision in favor of
Janssen and Actelion. In June 2022, Sandoz appealed the decision.

  

In May 2020, Janssen and Actelion initiated a Statement of Claim under Section
6 of the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations against Apotex
Inc. (Apotex) in Canada in response to Apotex's filing of an ANDS seeking
approval to market a generic version of OPSUMIT 10 mg, before the expiration
of the '770 patent. Apotex stipulated to validity of the '770 patent. Trial
against Apotex on the issue of infringement concluded in March 2022, and in
May 2022, the Court issued a decision in favor of Janssen and Actelion. In
June 2022, Apotex appealed the decision.

  

In January 2023, Janssen and Actelion initiated a Statement of Claim under
Section 6 of the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations against
Generic Medical Partners Inc. (GMP) in Canada in response to GMP's filing of
an ANDS seeking approval to market a generic version of OPSUMIT 10 mg, before
the expiration of Canadian Patent Nos. 2,659,770 and 2,621,273.

  

In each of these Canadian actions, Janssen and Actelion are seeking an order
enjoining the defendants from marketing their generic versions of OPSUMIT
before the expiration of the relevant patents.

  

In January 2023, Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd and Actelion Pharmaceuticals US,
Inc. (collectively, Actelion) initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Limited and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc.
(collectively, Sun) who filed an ANDA seeking approval to market a generic
version of OPSUMIT before the expiration of U.S. Patent Nos. 7,094,781 ('781)
and 10,946,015 ('015). Actelion is seeking an order enjoining Sun from
marketing their generic versions of OPSUMIT before the expiration of the '781
and '015 patents.

  

INVEGA SUSTENNA

  

In January 2018, Janssen Pharmaceutica NV and Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(collectively, Janssen) initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the United
States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), which filed an ANDA seeking approval to
market a generic version of INVEGA SUSTENNA before the expiration of U.S.
Patent No. 9,439,906 ('906). Trial concluded in October 2020. In October 2021,
the court issued a decision in Janssen's favor. Teva has appealed the
decision.

  

In August 2019, Janssen initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the United
States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Mylan
Laboratories Limited (Mylan), which filed an ANDA seeking approval to market a
generic version of INVEGA SUSTENNA before the expiration of the '906 patent.
Pursuant to an agreement by the parties, judgment in favor of Janssen was
entered in December 2021. Mylan appealed.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

92  
  
* * *

  

In December 2019, Janssen initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the
United States District Courts for the Districts of New Jersey and Delaware
against Pharmascience Inc., Mallinckrodt PLC and Specgx LLC (collectively,
Pharmascience), which filed an ANDA seeking approval to market a generic
version of INVEGA SUSTENNA before the expiration of the '906 patent.

  

In November 2021, Janssen initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the
United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Tolmar,
Inc., Tolmar Therapeutics, Inc., Tolmar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Tolmar
Holding, Inc. (collectively, Tolmar), which filed an ANDA seeking approval to
market a generic version of INVEGA SUSTENNA before the expiration of the '906
patent. A trial is scheduled to begin in October 2023.

  

In February 2022, Janssen initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Accord
Healthcare, Inc., Accord Healthcare, Ltd. and Intas Pharmaceuticals, Ltd.
(collectively, Accord), who filed an ANDA seeking approval to market a generic
version of INVEGA SUSTENNA before the expiration of the '906 patent.

  

In each of these U.S. lawsuits, Janssen is seeking an order enjoining the
defendant from marketing a generic version of INVEGA SUSTENNA before the
expiration of the relevant patents.

  

In February 2018, Janssen Inc. and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV (collectively,
Janssen Canada) initiated a Statement of Claim under Section 6 of the Patented
Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations against Teva Canada Limited (Teva
Canada) in response to Teva's filing of an ANDS seeking approval to market a
generic version of INVEGA SUSTENNA before the expiration of Canadian Patent
Nos. 2,309,629 ('629) and 2,655,335 ('335). Janssen subsequently discontinued
the portion of the lawsuit relating to the '629 patent. In May 2020, the
Canadian Federal Court issued a Public Judgment and Reasons declaring that
Teva Canada's generic version of INVEGA SUSTENNA, if approved, would infringe
certain claims of the '335 patent and that the claims of the '335 patent are
not invalid. Teva Canada appealed.

  

In November 2020, Janssen Canada initiated a Statement of Claim under Section
6 of the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations against
Pharmascience Inc. in response to Pharmascience Inc.'s filing of an ANDS
seeking approval to market a generic version of INVEGA SUSTENNA before the
expiration of the '335 patent. A summary trial on the issue of infringement
took place in November 2021. In January 2022, the Court issued a decision in
favor of Janssen on the issue of infringement. Pharmascience filed an appeal.
In March 2022, Janssen Canada initiated a Statement of Claim under Section 6
of the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations against
Pharmascience in response to Pharmascience's filing of an ANDS seeking
approval to market a generic version of an additional strength of INVEGA
SUSTENNA before the expiration of the '335 patent. The action has been
consolidated with the November 2020 action for trial, which took place in July
2022. In August 2022, the Court issued a decision finding the claims of
the'335 patent are not invalid. Pharmascience appealed.

  

In January 2021, Janssen Canada initiated a Statement of Claim under Section 6
of the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations against Apotex
Inc. (Apotex) in response to Apotex's filing of an ANDS (original ANDS)
seeking approval to market a generic version of INVEGA SUSTENNA before the
expiration of the '335 patent. A summary trial on the issue of infringement
took place in December 2021. In January 2022, the Court issued a decision in
favor of Janssen on the issue of infringement. Apotex appealed.

  

In June 2022, Janssen Canada initiated Statements of Claim under Section 6 of
the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations against Apotex in
response to Apotex's Notice of Allegation of invalidity with respect to the
original ANDS and in response to Apotex's filing of an ANDS seeking approval
to market a generic version of an additional strength of INVEGA SUSTENNA
before the expiration of the '335 patent. A trial is scheduled to begin in
March 2024.

  

In each of these Canadian lawsuits, Janssen Canada is seeking an order
enjoining the defendant from marketing a generic version of INVEGA SUSTENNA
before the expiration of the relevant patents.

  

INVEGA TRINZA

  

In September 2020, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Janssen Pharmaceutica NV,
and Janssen Research & Development, LLC (collectively, Janssen) initiated a
patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the
District of New Jersey against Mylan Laboratories Limited, Mylan
Pharmaceuticals Inc., and Mylan Institutional LLC (collectively, Mylan). Mylan
filed an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of INVEGA TRINZA
(546 mg) before expiration of U.S. Patent No. 10,143,693 ('693) relating to
INVEGA TRINZA (546 mg).

  

In August 2021, Janssen initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the United
States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Mylan. Mylan
filed an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of INVEGA TRINZA
(819 mg) before expiration of the '693 patent.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

93  
  
* * *

  

  

In October 2021, Janssen initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the United
States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Mylan. Mylan
filed an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of INVEGA TRINZA
(273 mg and 410 mg) before expiration of the '693 patent.

  

In January 2022, the court consolidated the three cases into the case filed in
September 2020. In each of these consolidated cases, Janssen is seeking an
order enjoining Mylan from marketing its generic versions of INVEGA TRINZA
before expiration of the '693 patent. Trial was conducted in November and
December 2022, and post-trial briefing is proceeding. Closing arguments will
be held in March 2023.

  

IMBRUVICA

  

In March 2019, Pharmacyclics LLC (Pharmacyclics) and Janssen Biotech, Inc.
(JBI) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court
for the District of Delaware against Alvogen Pine Brook LLC and Natco Pharma
Ltd. (collectively, Alvogen), which filed an ANDA seeking approval to market
generic versions of IMBRUVICA tablets, asserting infringement of U.S. Patent
Nos. 7,514,444; 8,003,309; 8,476,284; 8,497,277; 8,697,711; 8,753,403;
8,754,090; 8,754,091; 8,952,015; 8,957,079; 9,181,257; 9,296,753; 9,655,857;
9,725,455; 10,010,507; 10,106,548; and 10,125,140. In June 2019, Pharmacyclics
and JBI amended their complaint against Alvogen to further allege infringement
of U.S. Patent No. 10,213,386.

  

Trial against Alvogen took place in October 2020. In August 2021, the District
Court issued a decision in favor of Pharmacyclics and Janssen finding the
asserted claims against Alvogen to be infringed and not invalid. In November
2022, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the
District Court's decision.

  

In September 2021, Pharmacyclics and Janssen Inc. (Janssen Canada) initiated
Statements of Claim under Section 6 of the Patented Medicines (Notice of
Compliance) Regulations against Natco Pharma (Canada) Inc. (Natco) in response
to Natco's filing of two ANDSs seeking approval to market generic versions of
IMBRUVICA capsules before the expiration of Canadian Patent Nos. 2,663,116
('116); 2,928,721 ('721); 2,800,913 ('913); 3,007,787 ('787); 3,007,788
('788); 2,875,986 ('986); and 3,022,256 ('256). In this lawsuit, Pharmacyclics
and Janssen Canada are seeking an order enjoining Natco from marketing its
generic version of IMBRUVICA before the expiration of the relevant patents.
Trial is scheduled to begin in July 2023.

  

In October 2022, Pharmacyclics and Janssen Canada initiated a second Statement
of Claim under Section 6 of the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance)
Regulations against Natco in response to Natco's filing of an ANDS seeking
approval to market a generic version of IMBRUVICA capsules before the
expiration of the '116, '721, '913, '787, and '788 patents and Canadian Patent
No. 2,851,808. In this lawsuit, Pharmacyclics and Janssen Canada are seeking
an order enjoining Natco from marketing its generic version of IMBRUVICA
capsules before the expiration of the relevant patents. Trial in this second
action is scheduled to begin in August 2024.

  

In February 2023, Pharmacyclics and Janssen Canada initiated a Statement of
Claim under Section 6 of the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance)
Regulations against Sandoz Canada Inc. (Sandoz) in response to Sandoz's filing
of an ANDS seeking approval to market a generic version of IMBRUVICA capsules
before the expiration of the '116, '913, '787, and '788 patents. Also in
February 2023, Pharmacyclics and Janssen initiated a Statement of Claim under
Section 8.2 of the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations
against Sandoz asserting the '721 and '256 patents, which are also listed in
Health Canada's Patent Register for IMBRUVICA. In these lawsuits,
Pharmacyclics and Janssen Canada are seeking an order enjoining Sandoz from
marketing its generic version of IMBRUVICA capsules before the expiration of
the relevant patents. A trial date for these actions has not been set.

  

SYMTUZA

  

In November 2021, Janssen Products, L.P. and Janssen Sciences Ireland
Unlimited Company (collectively, Janssen) and Gilead Sciences, Inc. and Gilead
Sciences Ireland UC (collectively, Gilead) initiated a patent infringement
lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware
against Lupin Limited, Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., MSN Laboratories Private
Ltd., MSN Life Sciences Private Ltd., and MSN Pharmaceuticals Inc.
(collectively, Lupin), which filed an ANDA seeking approval to market a
generic version of SYMTUZA before the expiration of U.S. Patent Nos.
10,039,718 ('718) and 10,786,518 ('518). The trial is scheduled to begin in
October 2023.

  

In October 2022, Janssen Products, L.P. and Janssen Sciences Ireland Unlimited
Company (collectively, Janssen) and Gilead Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Sciences
Ireland UC (collectively, Gilead) initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in
the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Apotex
Inc. and Apotex Corp. (collectively, Apotex), which filed an ANDA seeking
approval to market a generic version of SYMTUZA before the expiration of the
'718 and '518 patents.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

94  
  
* * *

  

  

In each of these U.S. lawsuits, Janssen is seeking an order enjoining the
defendant from marketing a generic version of SYMTUZA before the expiration of
the relevant patents.

  

ERLEADA

  

In May 2022, Aragon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Janssen Biotech, Inc.
(collectively, Janssen) and Sloan Kettering Institute for Cancer Research
(SKI) initiated patent infringement lawsuits in United States District Court
for the Districts of New Jersey and Delaware against Lupin Limited and Lupin
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (collectively, Lupin), which filed an ANDA seeking
approval to market a generic version of ERLEADA before the expiration of U.S.
Patent No. 9,481,663 ('663). In August 2022, Janssen and SKI filed a first
amended complaint against Lupin adding U.S. Patent Nos. 9,884,054 ('054),
10,052,314 ('314), 10,702,508 ('508) and 10,849,888 ('888) to the suit.
Janssen and SKI are seeking an order enjoining Lupin from marketing its
generic version of ERLEADA before the expiration of the '663, '054, '314,
'508, and '888 patents. In August 2022, Janssen and SKI voluntarily dismissed
the Delaware complaint. The New Jersey action is proceeding.

  

In May 2022, Janssen and SKI initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in United
States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Zydus Worldwide
DMCC, Zydus Pharmaceuticals (USA), Inc., and Zydus Lifesciences Limited
(collectively, Zydus), which filed an ANDA seeking approval to market a
generic version of ERLEADA before the expiration of the '663, '054, '314,
'508, and '888 patents. Janssen and SKI are seeking an order enjoining Zydus
from marketing its generic version of ERLEADA before the expiration of the
'663, '054, '314, '508, and '888 patents.

  

In May 2022, Janssen, The Regents of the University of California (UC), and
SKI initiated patent infringement lawsuits in United States District Court for
the Districts of New Jersey and Delaware against Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz), which
filed an ANDA seeking approval to market a generic version of ERLEADA before
the expiration of the '663 patent and U.S. Patent Nos. 8,445,507 ('507),
8,802,689 ('689), 9,338,159 ('159), and 9,987,261 ('261). In August 2022,
Janssen, UC, and SKI filed a first amended complaint against Sandoz adding the
'054, '314, '508, and '888 patents to the suit. In August 2022, Janssen, UC,
and SKI voluntarily dismissed the Delaware complaint. In December 2022,
Janssen, UC, and SKI filed a second amended complaint against Sandoz
withdrawing the '054, '314, '508, and '888 patents from the suit without
prejudice. Janssen, UC, and SKI are seeking an order enjoining Sandoz from
marketing its generic version of ERLEADA before the expiration of the '663,
'507, '689, '159, and '261 patents. The New Jersey action is proceeding.

  

In May 2022, Janssen, UC, and SKI initiated patent infringement lawsuits in
United States District Court for the Districts of New Jersey and Delaware
against Eugia Pharma Specialities Limited, Aurobindo Pharma USA, Inc., and
Auromedics Pharma LLC (collectively, Eugia), which filed an ANDA seeking
approval to market a generic version of ERLEADA before the expiration of the
'663, '507, '689, '159 and '261 patents. In September 2022, Janssen, UC, and
SKI filed a first amended complaint against Eugia adding U.S. Patent Nos.
9,884,054 ('054), 10,052,314 ('314), 10,702,508 ('508) and 10,849,888 ('888)
to the suit. In September 2022, Janssen, UC, and SKI voluntarily dismissed the
Delaware complaint. Janssen, UC, and SKI are seeking an order enjoining Eugia
from marketing its generic version of ERLEADA before the expiration of the
'663,'507, '689, '159, '261, '054, '314, '508, and '888 patents. The New
Jersey action is proceeding.

  

In May 2022, Janssen, UC, and SKI initiated patent infringement lawsuits in
United States District Court for the Districts of New Jersey and Delaware
against Hetero Labs Limited Unit V and Hetero USA, Inc. (collectively,
Hetero), which filed an ANDA seeking approval to market a generic version of
ERLEADA before the expiration of the '663, '507,'054, '314,'508, and '888
patents. Janssen, UC, and SKI are seeking an order enjoining Hetero from
marketing its generic version of ERLEADA before the expiration of the '663,
'507, '054, '314, '508 and '888 patents. In August 2022, Janssen, UC, and SKI
voluntarily dismissed the Delaware complaint. The New Jersey action is
proceeding.

  

UPTRAVI

  

In August 2022, Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd, and Janssen Inc. (collectively,
Janssen) and Nippon Shinyaku Co. (Nippon Shinyaku) initiated a Statement of
Claim under Section 6 of the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance)
Regulations against Sandoz Canada Inc. in response to Sandoz's filing of an
ANDS seeking approval to market generic versions of UPTRAVI tablets before the
expiration of Canadian Patent Nos. 2,731,370 and 2,764,475. In this lawsuit,
Janssen and Nippon Shinyaku are seeking an order enjoining Sandoz from
marketing its generic version of UPTRAVI before the expiration of the relevant
patents. A trial is scheduled to begin in May 2024.

  

In November 2022, Actelion Pharmaceuticals US Inc. and Actelion
Pharmaceuticals Ltd (collectively, Actelion) and Nippon Shinyaku Co., Ltd.
(Nippon Shinyaku) initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States
District Court for the District of Delaware against Alembic Pharmaceuticals
Limited and Alembic Pharmaceuticals Inc. (collectively, Alembic) who filed an

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

95  
  
* * *

  

ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of UPTRAVI  injection for
intravenous use before expiration of U.S. Patent Nos. 8,791,122 ('122) and
9,284,280 ('280) relating to UPTRAVI. In this lawsuit, Actelion and Nippon
Shinyaku are seeking an order enjoining Alembic from marketing a generic
version of UPTRAVI before the expiration of the relevant patents. A trial date
has not been set.

  

In February 2023, Actelion and Nippon Shinyaku initiated a patent infringement
lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware
against Lupin Ltd. and Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (collectively, Lupin) who
filed an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of UPTRAVI injection
for intravenous use before expiration of the '122 and '280 patents relating to
UPTRAVI. In this lawsuit, Actelion and Nippon Shinyaku are seeking an order
enjoining Lupin from marketing a generic version of UPTRAVI before the
expiration of the relevant patents. A trial date has not been set.

  

Other Litigation

  

In November 2021, Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V. (Janssen) provided to Alkermes
Pharma Ireland Limited, Elan Pharma International Limited, and Elan Drug
Delivery, Inc. three-months' notice of termination of a License Agreement by
and among Elan Pharmaceutical Research Corp., d/b/a Nanosystems, Elan Pharma
International Limited and Janssen, executed in March, 1999. In November 2021,
Janssen also provided to Alkermes Pharma Ireland Limited three-months' notice
of termination of a License Agreement between Elan Pharma International
Limited and Janssen executed in July 2003. In April 2022, in response to these
notices, Alkermes Pharma Ireland Limited (Alkermes) initiated arbitration in
the International Institute for Conflict Prevention and Resolution. The
parties exchanged opening briefs in July 2022 and responsive briefs in
September 2022. In December 2022, the Arbitration Tribunal issued an Interim
Decision finding that Janssen may terminate the agreements, but it may not
continue to sell products developed during the term of the agreements without
continuing to pay royalties to Alkermes.

  

GOVERNMENT PROCEEDINGS

Like other companies in the pharmaceutical, consumer health and medical
devices industries, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to
extensive regulation by national, state and local government agencies in the
United States and other countries in which they operate. Such regulation has
been the basis of government investigations and litigations. The most
significant litigation brought by, and investigations conducted by, government
agencies are listed below. It is possible that criminal charges and
substantial fines and/or civil penalties or damages could result from
government investigations or litigation.

  

Average Wholesale Price (AWP) Litigation

The Company and several of its pharmaceutical subsidiaries (the J&J AWP
Defendants), along with numerous other pharmaceutical companies, were named as
defendants in a series of lawsuits in state and federal courts involving
allegations that the pricing and marketing of certain pharmaceutical products
amounted to fraudulent and otherwise actionable conduct because, among other
things, the companies allegedly reported an inflated Average Wholesale Price
(AWP) for the drugs at issue. Payors alleged that they used those AWPs in
calculating provider reimbursement levels. The plaintiffs in these cases
included three classes of private persons or entities that paid for any
portion of the purchase of the drugs at issue based on AWP, and state
government entities that made Medicaid payments for the drugs at issue based
on AWP. Many of these cases, both federal actions and state actions removed to
federal court, were consolidated for pre-trial purposes in a multi-district
litigation in the United States District Court for the District of
Massachusetts, where all claims against the J&J AWP Defendants were ultimately
dismissed. The J&J AWP Defendants also prevailed in a case brought by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Other AWP cases have been resolved through court
order or settlement. The case brought by Illinois was settled after trial. In
New Jersey, a putative class action based upon AWP allegations is pending
against Centocor, Inc. and Ortho Biotech Inc. (both now Janssen Biotech,
Inc.), the Company and ALZA Corporation. All other cases have been resolved.

  

Opioid Litigation

Beginning in 2014 and continuing to the present, the Company and Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (JPI), along with other pharmaceutical companies, have
been named in close to 3,500 lawsuits related to the marketing of opioids,
including DURAGESIC, NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER. The suits also raise allegations
related to previously owned active pharmaceutical ingredient supplier
subsidiaries, Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty, Ltd. and Noramco, Inc. (both
subsidiaries were divested in 2016). The majority of the cases have been filed
by state and local governments. Similar lawsuits have also been filed by
private plaintiffs and organizations, including but not limited to the
following: individual plaintiffs on behalf of children born with Neonatal
Abstinence Syndrome; hospitals; and health insurers/payors. To date,
complaints against pharmaceutical manufacturers, including the Company and
JPI, have been filed by the state Attorneys General in Arkansas, Florida,
Idaho, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Dakota,
Texas, Washington and West Virginia. Complaints against the manufacturers also
have been filed in state or federal court by city, county and local government
agencies in every state but Alaska. The Government of Puerto Rico filed suit
in Superior Court of San Juan.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

96  
  
* * *

  

  

The Company, JPI and other pharmaceutical companies had also received
subpoenas or requests for information related to opioids marketing practices
from the following state Attorneys General: Alaska, Indiana, Montana, New
Hampshire, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Washington. In September 2017,
the Company and JPI were contacted by the Texas and Colorado Attorney
General's Offices on behalf of approximately 38 states regarding a multi-state
Attorney General investigation.

  

In 2019, the trial in the matter filed by the Oklahoma Attorney General
resulted in a judgment against the Company and JPI in the amount of $465
million. The Company and JPI appealed the judgment, and in November 2021, the
Oklahoma Supreme Court reversed the trial court's judgment and directed entry
of judgment for Defendants. In October 2019 the Company and JPI announced a
settlement of the first case set for trial in the MDL with two counties in
Ohio. In April 2021, three California counties and the City of Oakland
commenced a trial in California state court against the Company and JPI, and
other affiliates, as well as three other pharmaceutical manufacturers. The
trial concluded in October 2021, and in December 2021, the Court entered a
final trial judgment in favor of Defendants on all claims. In February 2022,
Plaintiffs' motion to set aside and vacate the judgment was denied. Plaintiffs
appealed the judgment, but later filed a request to dismiss the appeal after
electing to participate in the national settlement agreement.

  

In October 2019, the Company announced a proposed agreement in principle that
would include the Company paying $4 billion as settlement of these matters
that had not been tried or settled. In October 2020, the Company agreed to
contribute up to an additional $1 billion to an all-in settlement amount that
would resolve opioid lawsuits filed and future claims by states, cities,
counties and tribal governments, for a total of $5 billion which has been
accrued, subject to various conditions and an agreement being finalized. This
agreement is not an admission of liability or wrong-doing. In July 2021, the
Company announced that the terms of the agreement to settle the state and
subdivision claims had been finalized and approximately half of the all-in
settlement was expected to be paid by the end of fiscal year 2022, depending
upon the level of participation by the states and their subdivisions. The
terms provided a period of time for states to elect to participate in the
agreement and, thereafter, a period for the subdivisions of the participating
states to opt-in. Based on expected participation, the Company committed in
advance to proceed with the settlement in five of the participating states
(New York, Texas, Florida, Nevada, and New Mexico) and with tribal
governments. By late February 2022, 45 states, five territories, the District
of Columbia, and the vast majority of eligible subdivisions had elected to
participate in the settlement, and the Company confirmed that the level of
participation was sufficient to proceed with the agreement as to all
participants. The agreement was effective in April 2022. Also in April 2022,
the Company entered into settlement agreements with the states of Alabama and
West Virginia and their participating subdivisions. In July 2022, the Company
reached a settlement agreement with all litigating Oklahoma subdivisions, and
in September 2022, the Company settled with the State of New Hampshire and its
participating subdivisions. Consequently, by the end of the fiscal year 2022,
the Company had settled the opioid claims advanced by all states except
Washington.

  

There are approximately 60 cases remaining post-settlement in various state
courts. There are approximately 570 remaining federal cases against the
Company and JPI coordinated in a federal Multi-District Litigation (MDL)
pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, and
approximately 20 additional cases pending against the Company and JPI in other
federal courts. In addition, the Province of British Columbia filed suit
against the Company and its Canadian affiliate Janssen Inc., and many other
industry members, in Canada, and is seeking to have that action certified as
an opt in class action on behalf of other provincial/territorial and the
federal governments in Canada. Additional proposed class actions have been
filed in Canada against the Company and Janssen Inc., and many other industry
members, by and on behalf of people who used opioids (for personal injuries),
municipalities and First Nations bands. In October 2019, an antitrust
complaint was filed by private plaintiffs in federal court in Tennessee and is
pending transfer to the MDL. These actions allege a variety of claims related
to opioid marketing practices, including false advertising, unfair
competition, public nuisance, consumer fraud violations, deceptive acts and
practices, false claims and unjust enrichment. The suits generally seek
penalties and/or injunctive and monetary relief and, in some of the suits, the
plaintiffs are seeking joint and several liability among the defendants. An
adverse judgment in any of these lawsuits could result in the imposition of
large monetary penalties and significant damages including, punitive damages,
cost of abatement, substantial fines, equitable remedies and other sanctions.

  

In August 2019, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United
States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York for documents
related to the Company's anti-diversion policies and procedures and
distribution of its opioid medications, in what the Company understands to be
part of a broader investigation into manufacturers' and distributors'
monitoring programs and reporting under the Controlled Substances Act.

  

From June 2017 through December 2019, the Company's Board of Directors
received a series of shareholder demand letters alleging breaches of fiduciary
duties related to the marketing of opioids. The Board retained independent
counsel to investigate the allegations in the demands, and in April 2020,
independent counsel delivered a report to the Board recommending that the

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

97  
  
* * *

  

Company reject the shareholder demands and take the steps that are necessary
or appropriate to secure dismissal of related derivative litigation. The Board
unanimously adopted the recommendations of the independent counsel's report.

  

In November 2019, one of the shareholders who sent a demand filed a derivative
complaint against the Company as the nominal defendant and certain current and
former directors and officers as defendants in the Superior Court of New
Jersey. The complaint alleges breaches of fiduciary duties related to the
marketing of opioids, and that the Company has suffered damages as a result of
those alleged breaches. A series of additional derivative complaints making
similar allegations against the same and similar defendants were filed in New
Jersey state and federal courts in 2019 and 2020. By 2022, all but two state
court cases had been voluntarily dismissed. In February 2022, the state court
granted the Company's motion to dismiss one of the two cases, and the
shareholder that brought the second case filed a notice of dismissal. The
shareholder whose complaint was dismissed filed a motion for reconsideration.
In May 2022, the state court held oral argument on the motion for
reconsideration and subsequently denied the motion. The shareholder has
appealed the state court's dismissal order.

  

Other

In August 2012, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc., DePuy, Inc. (now known as DePuy
Synthes, Inc.), and Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc. (collectively DePuy)
received an informal request from the United States Attorney's Office for the
District of Massachusetts and the Civil Division of the United States
Department of Justice (the United States) for the production of materials
relating to the DePuy ASR XL Hip device. In July 2014, the United States
notified the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts
that it had declined to intervene in a qui tam case filed pursuant to the
False Claims Act against the companies concerning the hip devices. In February
2016, the District Court granted the companies' motion to dismiss with
prejudice, unsealed the qui tam complaint, and denied the qui tam relators'
request for leave to file a further amended complaint. The qui tam relators
appealed the case to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.
In July 2017, the First Circuit affirmed the District Court's dismissal in
part, reversed in part, and affirmed the decision to deny the relators'
request to file a third amended complaint. In March 2021, DePuy filed its
motion to strike and dismiss the relators' second amended complaint; the
District Court denied DePuy's motion to strike and dismiss in July 2021. DePuy
filed a motion for reconsideration of the District Court's July 2021 ruling.
In November 2021, the District Court granted DePuy's motion for
reconsideration and dismissed the case with prejudice. The District Court's
order was unsealed in December 2021. The relators filed several post-dismissal
motions, including a January 2022 omnibus motion for reconsideration, which
the District Court denied. Following the District Court's order dismissing the
case with prejudice, DePuy filed a December 2021 motion seeking the recovery
of attorneys' fees and costs, which the District Court denied except as to
costs. The Relators have appealed the District Court's dismissal of the case
to the First Circuit. The briefing on the appeal is complete, the First
Circuit held oral argument on December 6, 2022, and the First Circuit's
decision remains pending.

  

In October 2012, the Company was contacted by the California Attorney
General's office regarding a multi-state Attorney General investigation of the
marketing of surgical mesh products for hernia and urogynecological purposes
by the Company's subsidiary, Ethicon, Inc. (Ethicon). In May 2016, California
and Washington filed civil complaints against the Company, Ethicon and Ethicon
US, LLC alleging violations of their consumer protection statutes. Similar
complaints were filed against the companies by the following states: Kentucky,
Mississippi, West Virginia and Oregon. In April 2019, the Company and Ethicon
settled the Washington case. In October 2019, the Company and Ethicon settled
the multi-state investigation with 41 other states and the District of
Columbia. In April 2020, the Company settled the West Virginia case. In
October 2020, the Company settled with the Attorney General of Oregon. In
November 2020, the Company settled with the Attorney General of Mississippi.
Trial in the Kentucky matter is scheduled for June 2023. The California case
started trial in July 2019 and concluded in September 2019. In January 2020,
the Court in California issued a statement of decision, finding in favor of
the State of California, and awarded civil penalties in the amount of $344
million. In April 2020, the Court in California denied the Company's motion
for a new trial. In August 2020, the Court entered judgment with respect to
the penalties of $344 million, but denied the Attorney General's request for
injunctive relief. The Company appealed the penalty judgment. In April 2022,
the Court of Appeals reduced the judgment to $302 million, but otherwise
denied the appeal. In July 2022, the Supreme Court of California denied the
Company's petition to review the Court of Appeals decision, and the Company
recorded a charge to reflect the judgment in the second quarter of 2022. In
November 2022, the Company petitioned the United States Supreme Court for
review.

  

In June 2014, the Mississippi Attorney General filed a complaint in Chancery
Court of The First Judicial District of Hinds County, Mississippi against the
Company and Johnson & Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. (now known as Johnson &
Johnson Consumer Inc.) (collectively, JJCI). The complaint alleges that JJCI
violated the Mississippi Consumer Protection Act by failing to disclose
alleged health risks associated with female consumers' use of talc contained
in JOHNSON'S Baby Powder and JOHNSON'S Shower to Shower (a product divested in
2012) and seeks injunctive and monetary relief. The Company and JJCI moved for
summary judgment on the grounds that the State's claim was barred by
preemption, which the trial court denied. The Mississippi Supreme Court
granted the Company and JJCI's request to file an interlocutory appeal of the
denial of the motion for summary judgment in late 2019. Briefing and oral
argument were completed. Thereafter, the Court

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

98  
  
* * *

  

rejected the interlocutory appeal in April 2021 and remanded the matter to the
trial court. In August 2021, JJCI filed a Petition for Writ of Certiorari in
the United States Supreme Court as to the Mississippi Supreme Court's ruling
of April 2021. In December 2021 the United States Supreme Court denied the
Petition for Writ of Certiorari. After the Mississippi Supreme Court remanded
the matter to the trial court, the State moved for a trial setting. JJCI
objected to any trial setting as barred by the stay arising from the LTL
Bankruptcy Case, referenced above, while the State argued that the stay did
not apply. In January 2022, the Court granted the State's motion for trial
setting and directed the parties to consult with the Court administrator to
secure a trial date. In February 2022, the trial court set the case for trial
to begin in February 2023. However, given the efforts to resolve talc-related
claims in the LTL Bankruptcy Case, the Company and the State agreed to a
temporary stay of discovery until May 2022. The temporary stay expired in May
2022. LTL thereafter moved to enjoin prosecution of the case in the LTL
Bankruptcy Case. In October 2022, the bankruptcy court issued an order staying
the case. The State filed an appeal to the Third Circuit concerning the stay
order.

  

In January 2020, the State of New Mexico filed a consumer protection case
alleging that the Company deceptively marketed and sold its talcum powder
products by making misrepresentations about the safety of the products and the
presence of carcinogens, including asbestos. The State of New Mexico filed an
Amended Complaint in March 2020. The Company moved to dismiss certain of the
claims in the Amended Complaint, which was granted. The Company then filed a
motion for partial judgment on the pleadings in December 2020, which was
denied. In March 2022, the New Mexico court denied the Company's motion to
compel the State of New Mexico to engage in discovery of state agencies and
denied the Company's request for interlocutory appeal of that decision. The
Company then filed a Petition for Writ of Superintending Control and a Request
for a Stay to the New Mexico Supreme Court on the issue of the State of New
Mexico's discovery obligations. In April 2022, in view of the efforts to
resolve talc-related claims in the LTL Bankruptcy Case, the Company and the
State agreed to a 60-day stay of all matters except for the pending writ
before the New Mexico Supreme Court, which expired in June 2022. Thereafter,
the Company moved to enjoin prosecution of the case in the LTL Bankruptcy
Case. In October 2022, the bankruptcy court issued an order staying the case.
In December 2022, the State filed an appeal to the Third Circuit concerning
the stay order. Separately, in September 2022, the New Mexico Supreme Court
granted the Company's request for a stay pending further briefing on the scope
of the State of New Mexico's discovery obligations.

  

Forty-two states and the District of Columbia have commenced a joint
investigation into the Company's marketing of its talcum powder products. At
this time, the multi-state group has not asserted any claims against the
Company. Five states have issued Civil Investigative Demands seeking documents
and other information. The Company has produced documents to Arizona, North
Carolina, Texas, and Washington and entered into confidentiality agreements.
The Company has not received any follow up requests from those states. In
March 2022, each of the forty-two states (including Mississippi and New
Mexico) agreed to mediation of their claims in the LTL Bankruptcy Case. In
July 2022, New Mexico and Mississippi indicated they would no longer
voluntarily submit to further mediation in the LTL Bankruptcy and would
proceed with their respective cases in state court. LTL moved the New Jersey
Bankruptcy Court for an order staying further proceedings in those two
actions, which the Bankruptcy Court granted in October 2022. In December 2022,
the Bankruptcy Court allowed New Mexico and Mississippi to file a direct
appeal of its stay.

  

In July 2016, the Company and Janssen Products, LP were served with a qui tam
complaint pursuant to the False Claims Act filed in the United States District
Court for the District of New Jersey alleging the off-label promotion of two
HIV products, PREZISTA and INTELENCE, and anti-kickback violations in
connection with the promotion of these products. The complaint was filed under
seal in December 2012. The federal and state governments have declined to
intervene, and the lawsuit is being prosecuted by the relators. The Court
denied summary judgment on all claims in December 2021. Daubert motions were
granted in part and denied in part in January 2022, and the case is proceeding
to trial.

  

In March 2017, Janssen Biotech, Inc. (JBI) received a Civil Investigative
Demand from the United States Department of Justice regarding a False Claims
Act investigation concerning management and advisory services provided to
rheumatology and gastroenterology practices that purchased REMICADE or SIMPONI
ARIA. In August 2019, the United States Department of Justice notified JBI
that it was closing the investigation. Subsequently, the United States
District Court for the District of Massachusetts unsealed a qui tam False
Claims Act complaint, which was served on the Company. The Department of
Justice had declined to intervene in the qui tam lawsuit in August 2019. The
Company filed a motion to dismiss, which was granted in part and denied in
part. Discovery is underway.

  

In April and September 2017, the Company received subpoenas from the United
States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts seeking documents broadly
relating to pharmaceutical copayment support programs for DARZALEX, OLYSIO,
REMICADE, SIMPONI, STELARA and ZYTIGA. The subpoenas also seek documents
relating to Average Manufacturer Price and Best Price reporting to the Center
for Medicare and Medicaid Services related to those products, as well as
rebate payments to state Medicaid agencies. The Company has provided documents
in response to the subpoenas.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

99  
  
* * *

  

In June 2017, the Company received a subpoena from the United States
Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts seeking information
regarding practices pertaining to the sterilization of DePuy Synthes, Inc.
(DePuy) spinal implants at three hospitals in Boston as well as interactions
of employees of Company subsidiaries with physicians at these hospitals. The
Company and DePuy fully cooperated with the government's investigation. In
January 2023, the Company, DePuy Synthes, Inc., and DePuy Synthes Sales Inc.
entered into a settlement agreement with the United States resolving the
matter for an immaterial amount.

  

In July 2018, the Public Prosecution Service in Rio de Janeiro and
representatives from the Brazilian antitrust authority CADE inspected the
offices of more than 30 companies including Johnson & Johnson do Brasil
Industria e Comercio de Produtos para Saude Ltda. The authorities appear to be
investigating allegations of possible anti-competitive behavior and possible
improper payments in the medical device industry. The Company continues to
respond to inquiries regarding the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act from the
United States Department of Justice and the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission.

  

From time to time, the Company has received requests from a variety of United
States Congressional Committees to produce information relevant to ongoing
congressional inquiries. It is the policy of Johnson & Johnson to cooperate
with these inquiries by producing the requested information.

  

GENERAL LITIGATION

Beginning in September 2017, multiple purported class actions were filed on
behalf of indirect purchasers of REMICADE against the Company and Janssen
Biotech, Inc. (collectively, Janssen) alleging that Janssen has violated
federal antitrust laws through its contracting strategies for REMICADE. The
cases were consolidated for pre-trial purposes as In re REMICADE Antitrust
Litigation in United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania. This case was settled in February 2022. The final approval
hearing is scheduled for February 2023.

  

In June 2019, the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issued a Civil
Investigative Demand to the Company and Janssen Biotech, Inc. (collectively,
Janssen) in connection with its investigation of whether Janssen's REMICADE
contracting practices violate federal antitrust laws. The Company has produced
documents and information responsive to the Civil Investigative Demand.
Janssen is in ongoing discussions with the FTC staff regarding its inquiry.

  

In February 2022, the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issued
Civil Investigative Demands to Johnson & Johnson and Janssen Biotech, Inc.
(collectively, Janssen) in connection with its investigation of whether
advertising practices for REMICADE violate federal law. Janssen has produced
documents and information responsive to the Civil Investigative Demands.
Janssen is in ongoing discussions with the FTC staff regarding the inquiry.

  

In June 2022, Genmab A/S filed a Notice for Arbitration with International
Institute for Conflict Prevention and Resolution (CPR) against Janssen
Biotech, Inc. seeking milestones and an extended royalty term for Darzalex
FASPRO. Janssen filed its Notice of Defense in July 2022. Genmab and Janssen
have cross-moved for early disposition of the arbitration. Argument was had in
January 2023.

  

In October 2017, certain United States service members and their families
brought a complaint against a number of pharmaceutical and medical devices
companies, including Johnson & Johnson and certain of its subsidiaries in
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, alleging that the
defendants violated the United States Anti-Terrorism Act. The complaint
alleges that the defendants provided funding for terrorist organizations
through their sales practices pursuant to pharmaceutical and medical device
contracts with the Iraqi Ministry of Health. In July 2020, the District Court
dismissed the complaint. In January 2022, the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit reversed the District Court's decision.
In February 2022, defendants petitioned for rehearing en banc.

  

In October 2018, two separate putative class actions were filed against
Actelion Pharmaceutical Ltd., Actelion Pharmaceuticals U.S., Inc., and
Actelion Clinical Research, Inc. (collectively Actelion) in United States
District Court for the District of Maryland and United States District Court
for the District of Columbia. The complaints allege that Actelion violated
state and federal antitrust and unfair competition laws by allegedly refusing
to supply generic pharmaceutical manufacturers with samples of TRACLEER.
TRACLEER is subject to a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy required by
the Food and Drug Administration, which imposes restrictions on distribution
of the product. In January 2019, the plaintiffs dismissed the District of
Columbia case and filed a consolidated complaint in the United States District
Court for the District of Maryland. In October 2019, the Court granted
Actelion's motion to dismiss the amended complaint. In April 2021, the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversed and remanded.
Discovery is ongoing.

  

In May 2019, a class action antitrust complaint was filed against Janssen R&D
Ireland (Janssen) and Johnson & Johnson in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that Janssen
violated federal and state

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

100  
  
* * *

  

antitrust and consumer protection laws by agreeing to exclusivity provisions
in its agreements with Gilead concerning the development and marketing of
combination antiretroviral therapies (cART) to treat HIV. The complaint also
alleges that Gilead entered into similar agreements with Bristol-Myers Squibb
and Japan Tobacco. In March 2020, the Court granted in part and denied in part
defendants' motions to dismiss. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in April
2020. Defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint. In July 2020, the
Court granted in part and denied in part the renewed motion to dismiss. In
December 2021, several insurance companies and other payers filed individual
"Opt-Out" complaints containing allegations similar to the original complaint.
In September 2022, the Court granted in part and denied in part plaintiff's
motion for class certification. In January 2023, the Court granted in part and
denied in part defendants' motion for summary judgment. Trial is scheduled for
May 2023.

  

In October 2019, Innovative Health, LLC filed a complaint against Biosense
Webster, Inc. (BWI) in the United States District Court for the Middle
District of California. The complaint alleges that certain of BWI's business
practices and contractual terms violate the antitrust laws of the United
States and the State of California by restricting competition in the sale of
High Density Mapping Catheters and Ultrasound Catheters. In January 2020, BWI
filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. In August 2020, the Court granted in
part and denied in part BWI's motion to dismiss. In December 2021, BWI filed a
motion for summary judgment. In March 2022, the Court granted BWI's motion for
summary judgment. In April 2022, Innovative appealed this ruling to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

  

In November 2019, the Company received a demand for indemnification from
Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer), pursuant to the 2006 Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement
between the Company and Pfizer. Also in November 2019, Johnson & Johnson Inc.
received notice reserving rights to claim indemnification from Sanofi Consumer
Health, Inc. (Sanofi), pursuant to the 2016 Asset Purchase Agreement between
Johnson & Johnson Inc. and Sanofi. In January 2020, Johnson & Johnson received
a demand for indemnification from Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(Boehringer Ingelheim), pursuant to the 2006 Asset Purchase Agreement among
the Company, Pfizer, and Boehringer Ingelheim. In November 2022, Johnson &
Johnson received a demand for indemnification from GlaxoSmithKline LLC (GSK),
pursuant to the 2006 Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement between the Company
and Pfizer, and certain 1993, 1998, and 2002 agreements between Glaxo Wellcome
and Warner-Lambert entities. The notices seek indemnification for legal claims
related to over-the-counter ZANTAC (ranitidine) products. Plaintiffs in the
underlying actions allege that ZANTAC and other over-the-counter ranitidine
medications contain unsafe levels of NDMA (N-nitrosodimethylamine) and can
cause and/or have caused various cancers in patients using the products, and
seek injunctive and monetary relief. The Company and Johnson & Johnson Inc.
have also been named in putative class actions filed in Canada with similar
allegations regarding ZANTAC or ranitidine use. Johnson & Johnson Inc. was
also named as a defendant along with other manufacturers in various personal
injury actions in Canada related to ZANTAC products. Johnson & Johnson Inc.
has provided Sanofi notice reserving rights to claim indemnification pursuant
to the 2016 Asset Purchase Agreement related to the class actions and personal
injury actions.

  

In October 2020, Fortis Advisors LLC (Fortis), in its capacity as
representative of the former stockholders of Auris Health Inc. (Auris), filed
a complaint against the Company, Ethicon Inc., and certain named officers and
employees (collectively, Ethicon) in the Court of Chancery of the State of
Delaware. The complaint alleges breach of contract, fraud, and other causes of
action against Ethicon in connection with Ethicon's acquisition of Auris in
2019. The complaint seeks damages and other relief. In December 2021, the
Court granted in part and denied in part defendants' motion to dismiss certain
causes of action. All claims against the individual defendants were dismissed.
The trial is scheduled for January 2024.

  

In June 2022, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. filed a Demand for Arbitration
against Emergent Biosolutions Inc. et al ("EBSI") with the American
Arbitration Association, alleging that EBSI breached the parties'
Manufacturing Services Agreement for the Company's COVID-19 vaccine. In July
2022, Emergent filed its answering statement and counterclaims.

  

In October 2022, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. filed a Demand for Arbitration
against Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. with the American Arbitration Association
pursuant to the Parties' agreements relating to production of drug substance
and drug product for the Company's COVID-19 vaccine. Also in October 2022,
Merck filed its answer and counterclaims.

  

Beginning in May 2021, multiple putative class actions were filed in state and
federal courts (California, Florida, New York, and New Jersey) against various
Johnson & Johnson entities alleging violations of state consumer fraud
statutes based on nondisclosure of alleged benzene contamination of certain
Neutrogena and Aveeno sunscreen products and the affirmative promotion of
those products as "safe"; and, in at least one case, alleging a strict
liability manufacturing defect and failure to warn claims, asserting that the
named plaintiffs suffered unspecified injuries as a result of alleged exposure
to benzene. The Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation has consolidated
all pending actions, except one product liability case and one case pending in
New Jersey state court, in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Florida, Fort Lauderdale Division. In October 2021, the Company
reached an agreement in principle for the settlement of a nationwide class,
encompassing the claims of the consolidated actions, subject to approval by
the Florida federal Court. In December 2021,

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

101  
  
* * *

  

plaintiffs in the consolidated actions filed a motion for preliminary approval
of a nationwide class settlement. The settlement was preliminarily approved by
the court in March 2022.

  

The Company (subsequently substituted by Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc.
(JJCI)) along with more than 120 other companies, is a defendant in a cost
recovery and contribution action brought by Occidental Chemical Corporation in
June 2018 in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey,
related to the clean-up of a section of the Lower Passaic River in New Jersey.

  

The Company or its subsidiaries are also parties to various proceedings
brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and comparable state, local or
foreign laws in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or
future remediation.

  

  

20\. Restructuring

In the fiscal second quarter of 2018, the Company announced plans to implement
a series of actions across its Global Supply Chain that are intended to focus
resources and increase investments in the critical capabilities, technologies
and solutions necessary to manufacture and supply its product portfolio,
enhance agility and drive growth. The Global Supply Chain actions include
expanding the use of strategic collaborations and bolstering initiatives to
reduce complexity, improve cost-competitiveness, enhance capabilities and
optimize the Supply Chain network. In fiscal year 2022, the Company recorded a
pre-tax charge of $0.5 billion, which is included on the following lines of
the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, $0.3 billion in restructuring, $0.1
billion in other (income) expense and $0.1 billion in cost of products sold.
Total project costs of approximately $2.2 billion have been recorded since the
restructuring was announced. The program was completed in the fiscal fourth
quarter of 2022.

  

The following table summarizes the severance charges and the associated
spending under these initiatives through the fiscal year ended 2022: | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(Dollars in Millions)| Severance| Asset Write-offs/Sales | |

Other(2)

| | Total  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
  
Reserve balance, January 3, 2021

| $| 135 | | -- | | | 9 | | | 144 |  
| | | | | |  
2021 activity| (23)| | -- | | | 16 | | | (7)|  
| | | | | |  
  
Reserve balance, January 2, 2022

| 112 | | -- | | | 25 | | | 137 |  
| | | | | |  
Current year activity:| | | | | |  
Charges | -- | | 15 | | | 448 | | | 463 |  
Cash settlements| (37)| | 44 | | (3)| | (439)| | | (432)|  
Settled non cash | -- | | (59)| | | | | (59)|  
  
Reserve balance, January 1, 2023(1)

| $| 75 | | -- | | | 34 | | | 109 |  
| | | | | |  
  
(1) Although the restructuring program has been completed in the fiscal year
2022, the Company expects that severance charges will continue beyond that
date. The reserve balance as of January 1, 2023 is recorded in the Employee
Related Obligation account in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

(2) Other includes project expense such as salaries for employees supporting
these initiatives and consulting expenses.

(3) Represents gain on sale of assets

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

102  
  
* * *

  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Johnson & Johnson

  

Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial
Reporting

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Johnson &
Johnson and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of January 1, 2023 and January
2, 2022, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, of comprehensive
income, of equity and of cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the
period ended January 1, 2023, including the related notes (collectively
referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited
the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 1, 2023,
based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).

  

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Company as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period
ended January 1, 2023 in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of January 1, 2023, based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.

  

Basis for Opinions

The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express
opinions on the Company's consolidated financial statements and on the
Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We
are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent
with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities
laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the PCAOB.

  

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.

  

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing
procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated
financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures
that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test
basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our
audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

  

As described in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting, management has excluded Abiomed, Inc., ("Abiomed") from its
assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of January 1, 2023,
because it was acquired by the Company in a business combination during 2022.
We have also excluded Abiomed from our audit of internal control over
financial reporting. Abiomed is a wholly-owned subsidiary whose total assets
and total sales excluded from management's assessment and our audit of
internal control over financial reporting represent less than 1% of each of
the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the fiscal
year ended January 1, 2023.

  

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

103  
  
* * *

  

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

  

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the
current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that were
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that
(i) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated
financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective,
or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not
alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken
as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below,
providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts
or disclosures to which they relate.

  

U.S. Pharmaceutical Rebate Reserves - Managed Care, Medicare and Medicaid

As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
recognizes revenue from product sales when obligations under the terms of a
contract with the customer are satisfied. Rebates and discounts provided to
customers are accounted for as variable consideration and recorded as a
reduction in sales. The liability for such rebates and discounts is recognized
within Accrued Rebates, Returns, and Promotions on the consolidated balance
sheet. A significant portion of the liability related to rebates is from the
sale of pharmaceutical goods within the U.S., primarily the Managed Care,
Medicare and Medicaid programs, which amounted to $9.6 billion as of January
1, 2023. For significant rebate programs, which include the U.S. Managed Care,
Medicare and Medicaid rebate programs, rebates and discounts estimated by
management are based on contractual terms, historical experience, patient
outcomes, trend analysis, and projected market conditions in the U.S.
pharmaceutical market.

  

The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures
relating to U.S. pharmaceutical rebate reserves - Managed Care, Medicare and
Medicaid is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management
due to the significant measurement uncertainty involved in developing these
reserves and the high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and audit
effort in performing procedures and evaluating the assumptions related to
contractual terms, historical experience, patient outcomes, trend analysis,
and projected market conditions in the U.S. pharmaceutical market.

  

Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit
evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated
financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of
controls relating to U.S. pharmaceutical rebate reserves - Managed Care,
Medicare and Medicaid, including controls over the assumptions used to
estimate these rebates. These procedures also included, among others, (i)
developing an independent estimate of the rebates by utilizing third party
information on price and market conditions in the U.S. pharmaceutical market,
the terms of the specific rebate programs, and the historical experience and
trend analysis of actual rebate claims paid; (ii) testing rebate claims
processed by the Company, including evaluating those claims for consistency
with the contractual and mandated terms of the Company's rebate arrangements;
and (iii) comparing the independent estimates to management's estimates.

  

Litigation Contingencies - Talc

As described in Notes 1 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company records accruals for loss contingencies associated with legal matters,
including talc, when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the
amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. To the extent adverse awards,
judgments, or verdicts have been rendered against the Company, management does
not record an accrual until a loss is determined to be probable and can be
reasonably estimated. For these matters, management is unable to estimate the
possible loss or range of loss beyond the amounts accrued. Amounts accrued for
legal contingencies often result from a complex series of judgments about
future events and uncertainties that rely heavily on estimates and assumptions
including timing of related payments. The ability to make such estimates and
judgments can be affected by various factors, including, among other things,
whether damages sought in the proceedings are unsubstantiated or
indeterminate; scientific and legal discovery has not commenced or is not
complete; proceedings are in early stages; matters present legal
uncertainties; there are significant facts in dispute; procedural or
jurisdictional issues; the uncertainty and unpredictability of the number of
potential claims; ability to achieve comprehensive multi-party settlements;
complexity of related cross-claims and counterclaims; and/or there are
numerous parties involved. Management continues to believe that the Company
has strong legal grounds to contest the talc verdicts it has appealed.
Notwithstanding management's confidence in the safety of the Company's talc
products, in certain circumstances the Company has settled cases. In October
2021, Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. (Old JJCI), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Johnson & Johnson, implemented a corporate restructuring and created a
subsidiary, LTL Management LLC (LTL), which became solely responsible for the
talc-related liabilities, and another subsidiary, New JJCI, which became
responsible for the remaining business of Old JJCI. LTL filed a voluntary
petition, seeking relief under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. As a result
of the LTL bankruptcy case, the Court entered a temporary restraining order
staying all litigation against LTL and Old JJCI. On November 15, 2021, the
North Carolina Bankruptcy Court confirmed the scope of the stay, issuing a
Preliminary Injunction (PI) prohibiting and enjoining the commencement and
prosecution of talc-related claims against LTL, Old JJCI, New JJCI, Johnson &
Johnson, other of their corporate affiliates, identified retailers, insurance
companies, and certain other parties. The LTL Bankruptcy Case was transferred
to the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey in
November 2021, and that court extended the PI through the end of

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

104  
  
* * *

  

February 2022. Claimants filed motions to dismiss the LTL Bankruptcy Case and,
following a multiple day hearing, the New Jersey Bankruptcy Court denied those
motions by order issued in March 2022. The New Jersey Bankruptcy Court
simultaneously issued another order extending the stay as to the Protected
Parties. The claimants subsequently filed notices of appeal as to the denial
of the motions to dismiss and the extension of the stay. In May 2022,the Third
Circuit Court of Appeals granted the petitions to appeal. The briefing and
oral argument on the appeal were completed in September 2022. On January 30,
2023, the Third Circuit reversed the Bankruptcy Court's ruling and remanded to
the Bankruptcy Court to dismiss the LTL bankruptcy. LTL has filed a petition
for rehearing on the decision.

  

The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures
relating to the talc litigation is a critical audit matter are the significant
judgment by management when assessing the likelihood of a loss being incurred
and when determining whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or range of
loss for the future and existing talc claims can be made, which in turn led to
a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing
procedures and evaluating management's assessment of the loss contingencies
associated with this litigation.

  

Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit
evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated
financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of
controls relating to management's evaluation of the talc litigation, including
controls over determining whether a loss is probable and whether the amount of
loss can be reasonably estimated, as well as financial statement disclosures.
These procedures also included, among others, (i) gaining an understanding of
the Company's process around the accounting and reporting for the talc
litigation; (ii) discussing the status of significant known actual and
potential litigation and the ongoing LTL bankruptcy proceedings with the
Company's in-house legal counsel, as well as external counsel when deemed
necessary; (iii) obtaining and evaluating the letters of audit inquiry with
internal and external legal counsel for significant litigation; (iv)
evaluating the reasonableness of management's assessment regarding whether an
unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible or probable and reasonably
estimable; and (v) evaluating the sufficiency of the Company's litigation
contingencies disclosures.

  

  

  

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Florham Park, New Jersey

February 16, 2023

  

We have served as the Company's auditor since at least 1920. We have not been
able to determine the specific year we began serving as auditor of the
Company.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

105  
  
* * *

  

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

  

Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management is required to
assess the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial
reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and report, based on that
assessment, whether the Company's internal control over financial reporting is
effective.

Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Company's internal
control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance
as to the reliability of the Company's financial reporting and the preparation
of external financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.

Internal controls over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, have
inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control over financial reporting
determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect
to financial statement preparation and may not prevent or detect all
misstatements. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company's management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company's
internal control over financial reporting as of January 1, 2023. In making
this assessment, the Company used the criteria established by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in "Internal
Control-Integrated Framework (2013)." These criteria are in the areas of
control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and
communication, and monitoring. The Company's assessment included extensive
documenting, evaluating and testing the design and operating effectiveness of
its internal controls over financial reporting.

The Company acquired Abiomed, Inc. (Abiomed), in a business combination in
December 2022. Abiomed's total assets, excluding intangible assets and
goodwill, and total sales represented less than 1% of each of the related
consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the fiscal year ended
January 1, 2023. As the acquisition occurred in the fiscal year 2022, the
scope of the Company's assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting for the fiscal year 2022 excluded the above
mentioned acquisition. This exclusion is in accordance with the SEC's general
guidance that an assessment of a recently acquired business may be omitted
from the scope in the year of acquisition.

Based on the Company's processes and assessment, as described above,
management has concluded that, as of January 1, 2023, the Company's internal
control over financial reporting was effective.

The effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting
as of January 1, 2023 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report,
which appears herein.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
/s/ J. Duato| | /s/ Joseph J. Wolk  
Joaquin Duato|  | Joseph J. Wolk  
Chairman, Board of Directors|  | Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer  
Chief Executive Officer|  |  
  
  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

106  
  
* * *

  

Shareholder Return Performance Graphs

Set forth below are line graphs comparing the cumulative total shareholder
return on the Company's Common Stock for periods of five years and ten years
ending January 1, 2023, against the cumulative total return of the Standard &
Poor's 500 Stock Index, the Standard & Poor's Pharmaceutical Index and the
Standard & Poor's Healthcare Equipment Index. The graphs and tables assume
that $100 was invested on December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2012 in each of
the Company's Common Stock, the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index, the
Standard & Poor's Pharmaceutical Index and the Standard & Poor's Healthcare
Equipment Index and that all dividends were reinvested.

5 Year Shareholder Return Performance J&J vs. Indices

![jnj-20230101_g10.jpg](jnj-20230101_g10.jpg)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2017| 2018| 2019| 2020| 2021| 2022  
Johnson & Johnson| $100.00| $94.86| $110.24| $122.20| $136.19| $144.32  
S&P 500 Index| $100.00| $95.61| $125.70| $148.81| $191.48| $156.77  
S&P Pharmaceutical Index| $100.00| $108.09| $124.40| $133.76| $168.21| $182.43  
S&P Healthcare Equipment Index| $100.00| $116.24| $150.32| $176.83| $211.05|
$171.25  
  
10 Year Shareholder Return Performance J&J vs. Indices

![jnj-20230101_g11.jpg](jnj-20230101_g11.jpg)| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2012| 2013| 2014| 2015| 2016| 2017| 2018| 2019| 2020| 2021| 2022  
Johnson & Johnson| $100.00| $134.62| $157.95| $159.78| $184.26| $229.23|
$217.46| $252.71| $280.13| $312.20| $330.83  
S&P 500 Index| $100.00| $132.37| $150.47| $152.53| $170.76| $208.02| $198.87|
$261.47| $309.54| $398.32| $326.12  
S&P Pharmaceutical Index| $100.00| $135.23| $165.27| $174.84| $172.10|
$193.74| $209.41| $241.01| $259.15| $325.89| $353.44  
S&P Healthcare Equipment Index| $100.00| $127.69| $161.24| $170.87| $181.95|
$238.17| $276.85| $358.03| $421.16| $502.66| $407.86  
  
  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

107  
  
* * *

  

Item 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

Item 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures. At the end of the period covered by this
Report, the Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of
its disclosure controls and procedures. The Company's disclosure controls and
procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
in the SEC's rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include,
without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it
files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the
Company's management, including its principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to
allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Joaquin Duato, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer, and Joseph J. Wolk, Executive Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer, reviewed and participated in this evaluation. Based
on this evaluation, Messrs. Duato and Wolk concluded that, as of the end of
the period covered by this Report, the Company's disclosure controls and
procedures were effective.

Reports on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. The information called
for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to "Management's Report
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting", and the attestation regarding
internal controls over financial reporting included in the "Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" included in Item 8 of this
Report.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. During the fiscal
quarter ended January 1, 2023, there were no changes in the Company's internal
control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation
required under Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company's internal control over financial reporting. The Company continues to
monitor and assess the effectiveness of the design and operation of its
disclosure controls and procedures.

The Company is implementing a multi-year, enterprise-wide initiative to
integrate, simplify and standardize processes and systems for the human
resources, information technology, procurement, supply chain and finance
functions. These are enhancements to support the growth of the Company's
financial shared service capabilities and standardize financial systems. This
initiative is not in response to any identified deficiency or weakness in the
Company's internal control over financial reporting. In response to this
initiative, the Company has and will continue to align and streamline the
design and operation of its financial control environment.

Item 9B.OTHER INFORMATION

Not applicable.

  

Item 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS

Not applicable.

PART III

Item 10.DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the discussion of the Audit Committee under the caption "Item 1. Election of
Directors - Board Committees"; and the material under the captions "Item 1.
Election of Directors" and, if applicable, "Stock Ownership and Section 16
Compliance - Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports" in the Proxy Statement; and the
material under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of
this Report.

The Company's Code of Business Conduct, which covers all employees (including
the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller), meets
the requirements of the SEC rules promulgated under Section 406 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Code of Business Conduct is available on the
Company's website at www.jnj.com/code-of-business-conduct, and copies are
available to shareholders without charge upon written request to the Secretary
at the Company's principal executive offices. Any substantive amendment to the
Code of Business Conduct or any waiver of the Code granted to the Chief
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or the Controller will be
posted on the Company's website at www.investor.jnj.com/gov.cfm within five
business days (and retained on the website for at least one year).

In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics for
Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers. The Code of Business
Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

108  
  
* * *

  

is available on the Company's website at
www.investor.jnj.com/gov/boardconduct.cfm, and copies are available to
shareholders without charge upon written request to the Secretary at the
Company's principal executive offices. Any substantive amendment to the Code
or any waiver of the Code granted to any member of the Board of Directors or
any executive officer will be posted on the Company's website at
www.investor.jnj.com/gov.cfm within five business days (and retained on the
website for at least one year).

Item 11.EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the material under the captions "Item 1. Election of Directors - Director
Compensation," and "Item 2. Compensation & Benefits Committee Report,"
"Compensation Discussion and Analysis" and "Executive Compensation Tables" in
the Proxy Statement.

The material incorporated herein by reference to the material under the
caption "Compensation & Benefits Committee Report" in the Proxy Statement
shall be deemed furnished, and not filed, in this Report and shall not be
deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a
result of this furnishing, except to the extent that the Company specifically
incorporates it by reference.

Item 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the material under the caption "Item 1. Stock Ownership and Section 16
Compliance" in the Proxy Statement; and Note 16 "Common Stock, Stock Option
Plans and Stock Compensation Agreements" of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The following table provides certain information as of January 1, 2023
concerning the shares of the Company's Common Stock that may be issued under
existing equity compensation plans.| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Plan Category| Number of Securities to  
be Issued Upon Exercise of  
Outstanding Options and Rights| | Weighted Average  
Exercise Price of  
Outstanding Options and Rights| |

Number of Securities

Remaining Available for

Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans(2)(3)  
  
Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders(1)

| 134,644,525 | | | $118.94 | | | 149,652,710 |  
Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders| -| | -| | -  
Total| 134,644,525 | | | $118.94 | | | 149,652,710 |  
  
  

(1)Included in this category are the following equity compensation plans which
have been approved by the Company's shareholders: 2012 Long-Term Incentive
Plan and 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan.

(2)This column excludes shares reflected under the column "Number of
Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options and Rights."

(3)The 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan expired April 26, 2022. All options and
restricted shares granted subsequent to that date were under the 2022 Long-
Term Incentive Plan.

Item 13.CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the material under the captions "Item 1. Election of Directors \- Director
Independence" and "Related Person Transactions" in the Proxy Statement.

Item 14.PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the material under the caption "Item 3. Ratification of Appointment of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in the Proxy Statement.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

109  
  
* * *

  

PART IV

Item 15.EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1. Financial Statements

Consolidated Balance Sheets at end of Fiscal Years 2022 and 2021

Consolidated Statements of Earnings for Fiscal Years 2022, 2021 and 2020

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for Fiscal Years 2022, 2021
and 2020

Consolidated Statements of Equity for Fiscal Years 2022, 2021 and 2020

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Fiscal Years 2022, 2021 and 2020

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required
information is included in the financial statements or notes.

2. Exhibits Required to be Filed by Item 60l of Regulation S-K

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the Exhibit Index in this Report.

  

Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY

Registrants may voluntarily include a summary of information required by Form
10-K under this Item 16. The Company has elected not to include such summary
information.

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

110  
  
* * *

  

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: February 16, 2023 | |  
---|---|---  
JOHNSON & JOHNSON  
(Registrant)  
  
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
By | /s/ J. Duato  
| J. Duato, Chairman of the Board  
and Chief Executive Officer  
  
  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.| | | | | | | | |
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Signature|  | Title|  | Date  
| |  | |  
/s/ J. Duato| | Chairman of the Board| | February 16, 2023  
J. Duato| | Chief Executive Officer  
(Principal Executive Officer)| |  
| |  | |  
/s/ J. J. Wolk| | Chief Financial Officer | | February 16, 2023  
J. J. Wolk| | (Principal Financial Officer)| |  
| |  | |  
/s/ R. J. Decker Jr.| | Controller and Chief Accounting Officer| | February
16, 2023  
R. J. Decker Jr.| | (Principal Accounting Officer)| |  
| | | |  
/s/D. Adamczyk| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
  
D. Adamczyk

| | | |  
| |  | |  
/s/ M. C. Beckerle| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
M. C. Beckerle| | | |  
| | | |  
/s/ D. S. Davis| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
D. S. Davis| | | |  
| |  | |  
/s/ I. E. L. Davis| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
I. E. L. Davis| |  | |  
| | | |  
/s/ J. A. Doudna| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
J. A. Doudna| |  | |  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

111  
  
* * *

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Signature| | Title|  | Date  
/s/ M. A. Hewson| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
M. A. Hewson| | | |  
| | | |  
/s/ H. Joly| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
H. Joly| | | |  
| | | |  
/s/ M. B. McClellan| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
M. B. McClellan| | | |  
| |  | |  
/s/ A. M. Mulcahy| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
A. M. Mulcahy| | | |  
| |  | |  
/s/ A. E. Washington| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
A. E. Washington| | | |  
| | | |  
/s/ M. A. Weinberger| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
M. A. Weinberger| | | |  
| | | |  
/s/ N.Y. West| | Director| | February 16, 2023  
N. Y. West| | | |  
| | | |  
  
  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

112  
  
* * *

  

EXHIBIT INDEX

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Reg. S-K| |  
Exhibit Table| | Description  
Item No.| | of Exhibit  
  
[2(i)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000119312522274491/d395813dex21.htm)

| | Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 31, 2022, by and among
Johnson & Johnson, Athos Merger Sub, Inc. and ABIOMED, Inc. - Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the Registrant's Form 8-K Current Report
filed November 1, 2022.†  
  
[3(i)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040616000071/exhibit3i-restatedcertific.htm)

| | Restated Certificate of Incorporation effective February 19, 2016 --
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(i) of the Registrant's Form 10-K
Annual Report for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2016.  
  
[3(ii)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040620000034/ex31amendmenttocoi.htm)

| | Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation of Johnson &
Johnson effective April 30, 2020  -- Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 of the Registrant's Form 8-K Current Report filed April 29, 2020.  
  
[3(iii)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040620000039/ex31amendmenttoby-
laws.htm)

| | By-Laws of the Company, as amended effective June 9, 2020 -- Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Registrant's Form 8-K Current Report
filed June 10, 2020.  
4(a)| | Upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Registrant will furnish a copy of all instruments defining the rights of
holders of long-term debt of the Registrant.  
  
[4(b)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040620000052/aug12exhibit41.htm)

| | Description of Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934  -- Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant's Form 8-K Current Report filed August 12, 2020.  
  
[10(a)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040605000088/ltipexhibitfour.txt)

| | 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan -- Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 4 of the Registrant's S-8 Registration Statement filed on May 10, 2005
(file no. 333-124785).*  
  
[10(b)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040612000006/tenoneformofcertificatesto.htm)

| | Form of Stock Option Certificate under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
-- Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Form
8-K Current Report filed January 13, 2012.*  
  
[10(c)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040617000015/a2017jnjproxy.htm)

| | 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan -- Incorporated herein by reference to
Appendix A of the Registrant's Proxy Statement filed on March 15, 2017.*  
  
[10(d)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040612000081/0000200406-12-000081-index.htm)

| | Form of Stock Option Certificate, Restricted Share Unit Certificate and
Performance Share Unit Certificate under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan --
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibits 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4 of the
Registrant's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 1, 2012.*  
  
[10(e)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040618000019/0000200406-18-000019-index.htm)

| | Global NonQualified Stock Option Award Agreement, Global Restricted Share
Unit Award Agreement and Global Performance Share Unit Award Agreement under
the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan -- Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 of the Registrant's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report
for the quarter ended April 1, 2018.*  
  
[10(f)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040619000033/a201910-q1qexhibit10ajjexe.htm)

| | Johnson & Johnson Executive Incentive Plan (Amended as of November 28,
2018) -- Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) of the Registrant's
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 2019.*  
  
[10(g)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000095012304003155/y94471exv10wg.txt)

| | Domestic Deferred Compensation (Certificate of Extra Compensation) Plan --
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) of the Registrant's Form
10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2003.*  
  
[10(h)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000095012309003187/y74152exv10wj.htm)

| | Amendments to the Certificate of Extra Compensation Plan effective as of
January 1, 2009 -- Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) of the
Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2008.*  
  
[10(i)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000095012309057624/y79425exv10w1.htm)

| | 2009 Certificates of Long-Term Performance Plan -- Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
the quarter ended September 27, 2009.*  
  
[10(j)](ex21-subsidiariesxform10xk.htm)

| | Amended and Restated Deferred Fee Plan for Directors (Amended as of
January 17, 2012) -- Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) of the
Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended January 1,
2012.*  
  
[10(k)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040612000140/exhibit101.htm)

| | The Johnson & Johnson Executive Income Deferral Plan Amended and Restated
Effective January 1, 2010 -- Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1
of the Registrant's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September
30, 2012.*  
  
[10(l)](ex101-jjexcessplanx2022res.htm)

| | The Johnson & Johnson Excess Savings Plan (amended and restated as of
January 1, 2022) -- Filed with this document.*  
  
[10(](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040621000008/ex31-jjexcessplanx2020rest.htm)[m](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040621000008/ex31-jjexcessplanx2020rest.htm)[)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040621000008/ex31-jjexcessplanx2020rest.htm)

| | Excess Benefit Plan of Johnson & Johnson and Affiliated Companies (amended
and restated as of January 1, 2020)-- incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(n) of the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
January 3, 2021.*  
10(n)**| | Executive Life Plan Agreement -- Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10(i) of the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal
year ended January 3, 1993.*  
  
[10(](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040615000019/a201510-q1qexhibit101execu.htm)[o](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040615000019/a201510-q1qexhibit101execu.htm)[)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040615000019/a201510-q1qexhibit101execu.htm)

| | Executive Life Plan Agreement Closure Letter -- Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
the quarter ended March 29, 2015.*  
  
[10(](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040622000026/a2022jnjproxy.htm)[p](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040622000026/a2022jnjproxy.htm)[)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040622000026/a2022jnjproxy.htm)

| | 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan -- Incorporated by reference to Appendix A
of the Registrant's Proxy Statement filed on March 16, 2022.*  
  
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

113  
  
* * *

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Reg. S-K| |  
Exhibit Table| | Description  
Item No.| | of Exhibit  
  
[10(](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040614000097/a201410-q3qexhibit101sever.htm)[q](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040614000097/a201410-q3qexhibit101sever.htm)[)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040614000097/a201410-q3qexhibit101sever.htm)

| | Severance Pay Plan of Johnson & Johnson and U.S. Affiliated Companies,
Amended and Restated as of October 1, 2014 -- Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter
ended September 28, 2014.*  
  
[10(](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040615000044/exhibit101severancepayplan.htm)[r](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040615000044/exhibit101severancepayplan.htm)[)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040615000044/exhibit101severancepayplan.htm)

| | First Amendment to the Severance Pay Plan of Johnson & Johnson and U.S.
Affiliated Companies (as amended and restated effective October 1, 2014) --
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Form 10-Q
Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June 28, 2015.*  
  
[10(](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040616000071/exhibit10x-secondamendment.htm)[s](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040616000071/exhibit10x-secondamendment.htm)[)](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000020040616000071/exhibit10x-secondamendment.htm)

| | Second Amendment to the Severance Pay Plan of Johnson & Johnson and U.S.
Affiliated Companies (as amended and restated effective October 1, 2014) --
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(x) of the Registrant's Form
10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2016.*  
  
[10(t)](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/200406/000119312522311072/d428734dex101.htm)

| | Contingent Value Rights Agreement, dated as of December 22, 2022, by and
between Johnson & Johnson and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC -
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Form 8-K
Current Report filed December 22, 2022.†  
  
[21](ex21-subsidiariesxform10xk.htm)

| | Subsidiaries -- Filed with this document.  
  
[23](ex23-pwcconsentxform10xkx2.htm)

| | Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm -- Filed with
this document.  
  
[31.1](ex311-302certofceoxform10x.htm)

| | Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act -- Filed with this document.  
  
[31.2](ex312-302certofcfoxform10x.htm)

| | Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act -- Filed with this document.  
  
[32.1](ex321-906certofceoxform10x.htm)

| | Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act -- Furnished with this document.  
  
[32.2](ex322-906certofcfoxform10x.htm)

| | Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act -- Furnished with this document.  
Exhibit 101:| |  
EX-101.INS| | Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the
Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline
XBRL document  
EX-101.SCH| | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema  
EX-101.CAL| | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase  
EX-101.LAB| | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase  
EX-101.PRE| | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase  
EX-101.DEF| | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Document  
Exhibit 104:| | Cover Page Interactive Data File--the cover page interactive
data file does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags
are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.  
  
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
*| Management contract or compensatory plan.  
**| Paper filing.  
†| Certain exhibits and schedules have been omitted pursuant to Item
601(b)(2)(ii) or 601(b)(10)(iv) of Regulation S-K, as applicable.  
  
A copy of any of the Exhibits listed above will be provided without charge to
any shareholder submitting a written request specifying the desired exhibit(s)
to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company. Pursuant
to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, the Company has not filed as
exhibits to this Form 10-K certain long-term debt instruments, including
indentures, under which the total amount of securities authorized does not
exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis. The Company hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any such
instrument to the SEC upon request.

  

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

114

