falsehttp://www.tesla.com/20221231#DigitalAssetsNetNonCurrenthttp://fasb.org/us-

id

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

|  
---|---  
  
☒

|

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934  
  
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022

OR

|  
---|---  
  
☐

|

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934  
  
For the transition period from _________ to _________

Commission File Number: 001-34756

Tesla, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

|  |  
---|---|---  
  
Delaware

|

|

91-2197729  
  
(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

|

|

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)  
  
|  |  
---|---|---  
  
1 Tesla Road

Austin, Texas

|

|

78725  
  
(Address of principal executive offices)

|

|

(Zip Code)  
  
(512) 516-8177

(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

|  |  
---|---|---  
  
Title of each class

|

Trading Symbol(s)

|

Name of each exchange on which registered  
  
Common stock

|

TSLA

|

The Nasdaq Global Select Market  
  
---  
  
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  
  
None  
  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer,
as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 ("Exchange Act") during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such
files). Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer,"
"accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company" and "emerging growth company"
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act:

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Large accelerated filer

|

|

☒

|

|

|

|

Accelerated filer

|

|

☐  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Non-accelerated filer

|

|

☐

|

|

|

|

Smaller reporting company

|

|

☐  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Emerging growth company

|

|

☐

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has
elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new
or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a)
of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has filed a report on and
attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting
firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ No ☒

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, as of June 30, 2022, the last day of the registrant's most
recently completed second fiscal quarter, was $580.48 billion (based on the
closing price for shares of the registrant's Common Stock as reported by the
NASDAQ Global Select Market on June 30, 2022). Shares of Common Stock held by
each executive officer, director, and holder of 5% or more of the outstanding
Common Stock have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be
affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a
conclusive determination for other purposes.

As of January 25, 2023, there were 3,164,102,701 shares of the registrant's
common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2023 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference in Part III of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K to the extent stated herein. Such proxy statement will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days of the
registrant's fiscal year ended December 31, 2022.

* * *

TESLA, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022

INDEX

|  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

Page  
  
PART I.

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
Item 1.

|

|

Business

|

|

4  
  
Item 1A.

|

|

Risk Factors

|

|

14  
  
Item 1B.

|

|

Unresolved Staff Comments

|

|

29  
  
Item 2.

|

|

Properties

|

|

29  
  
Item 3.

|

|

Legal Proceedings

|

|

29  
  
Item 4.

|

|

Mine Safety Disclosures

|

|

29  
  
|

|  
  
PART II.

|

|  
  
|

|  
  
Item 5.

|

|

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities

|

|

30  
  
Item 6.

|

|

[Reserved]

|

|

31  
  
Item 7.

|

|

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

|

|

32  
  
Item 7A.

|

|

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

|

|

44  
  
Item 8.

|

|

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

|

|

45  
  
Item 9.

|

|

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

|

|

90  
  
Item 9A.

|

|

Controls and Procedures

|

|

90  
  
Item 9B.

|

|

Other Information

|

|

90  
  
Item 9C.

|

|

Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

|

|

90  
  
|

|  
  
PART III.

|

|  
  
|

|  
  
Item 10.

|

|

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

|

|

91  
  
Item 11.

|

|

Executive Compensation

|

|

91  
  
Item 12.

|

|

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters

|

|

91  
  
Item 13.

|

|

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

|

|

91  
  
Item 14.

|

|

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

|

|

91  
  
|

|  
  
PART IV.

|

|  
  
|

|

|  
  
Item 15.

|

|

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

|

|

92  
  
Item 16.

|

|

Summary

|

|

106  
  
|

|  
  
Signatures

|

|

107  
  
* * *

Forward-Looking Statements

The discussions in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking
statements reflecting our current expectations that involve risks and
uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited
to, statements concerning any potential future impact of the coronavirus
disease ("COVID-19") pandemic on our business, supply chain constraints, our
strategy, competition, future operations and production capacity, future
financial position, future revenues, projected costs, profitability, expected
cost reductions, capital adequacy, expectations regarding demand and
acceptance for our technologies, growth opportunities and trends in the
markets in which we operate, prospects and plans and objectives of management.
The words "anticipates," "believes," "could," "estimates," "expects,"
"intends," "may," "plans," "projects," "will," "would" and similar expressions
are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-
looking statements contain these identifying words. We may not actually
achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking
statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking
statements. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans,
intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements that
we make. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that
could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-
looking statements, including, without limitation, the risks set forth in Part
I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). We do not
assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

* * *

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

We design, develop, manufacture, sell and lease high-performance fully
electric vehicles and energy generation and storage systems, and offer
services related to our products. We generally sell our products directly to
customers, and continue to grow our customer-facing infrastructure through a
global network of vehicle service centers, Mobile Service, body shops,
Supercharger stations and Destination Chargers to accelerate the widespread
adoption of our products. We emphasize performance, attractive styling and the
safety of our users and workforce in the design and manufacture of our
products and are continuing to develop full self-driving technology for
improved safety. We also strive to lower the cost of ownership for our
customers through continuous efforts to reduce manufacturing costs and by
offering financial and other services tailored to our products.

Our mission is to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy. We
believe that this mission, along with our engineering expertise, vertically
integrated business model and focus on user experience differentiate us from
other companies.

Segment Information

We operate as two reportable segments: (i) automotive and (ii) energy
generation and storage.

The automotive segment includes the design, development, manufacturing, sales
and leasing of high-performance fully electric vehicles as well as sales of
automotive regulatory credits. Additionally, the automotive segment also
includes services and other, which includes non-warranty after-sales vehicle
services and parts, sales of used vehicles, retail merchandise, paid
Supercharging and vehicle insurance revenue. The energy generation and storage
segment includes the design, manufacture, installation, sales and leasing of
solar energy generation and energy storage products and related services and
sales of solar energy systems incentives.

Our Products and Services

Automotive

We currently manufacture four different consumer vehicles - the Model 3, Y, S
and X. Model 3 is a four-door mid-size sedan that we designed for
manufacturability with a base price for mass-market appeal. Model Y is a
compact sport utility vehicle ("SUV") built on the Model 3 platform with
seating for up to seven adults. Model S is a four-door full-size sedan and
Model X is a mid-size SUV with seating for up to seven adults. Model S and
Model X feature the highest performance characteristics and longest ranges
that we offer in a sedan and SUV, respectively.

In December 2022, we began early production and deliveries of the Tesla Semi,
our first commercial electric vehicle. We have also announced several planned
electric vehicles to address additional vehicle markets, including specialized
consumer electric vehicles in Cybertruck and the new Tesla Roadster. We plan
to continue leveraging developments in our proprietary Full Self-Driving
("FSD"), battery cell and other technologies.

Energy Generation and Storage

Energy Storage Products

Powerwall and Megapack are our lithium-ion battery energy storage products.
Powerwall is designed to store energy at a home or small commercial facility.
Megapack is an energy storage solution for commercial, industrial, utility and
energy generation customers, multiple of which may be grouped together to form
larger installations of gigawatt hours ("GWh") or greater capacity.

We also continue to develop software capabilities for remotely controlling and
dispatching our energy storage systems across a wide range of markets and
applications, including through our real-time energy control and optimization
platforms.

Solar Energy Offerings

We sell retrofit solar energy systems to customers and channel partners and
also make them available through power purchase agreement ("PPA")
arrangements. We purchase most of the components for our retrofit solar energy
systems from multiple sources to ensure competitive pricing and adequate
supply. We also design and manufacture certain components for our solar energy
products.

We sell our Solar Roof, which combines premium glass roof tiles with energy
generation, directly to customers, as well as through channel customers. We
continue to improve our installation capability and efficiency, including
through collaboration with real estate developers and builders on new homes.

4

* * *

Technology

Automotive

Battery and Powertrain

Our core vehicle technology competencies include powertrain engineering and
manufacturing and our ability to design vehicles that utilize the unique
advantages of an electric powertrain. We have designed our proprietary
powertrain systems to be adaptable, efficient, reliable and cost-effective
while withstanding the rigors of an automotive environment. We offer dual
motor powertrain vehicles, which use two electric motors to maximize traction
and performance in an all-wheel drive configuration, as well as vehicle
powertrain technology featuring three electric motors for further increased
performance in certain versions of Model S and Model X and the Tesla Semi.

We maintain extensive testing and R&D capabilities for battery cells, packs
and systems, and have built an expansive body of knowledge on lithium-ion cell
chemistry types and performance characteristics. In order to enable a greater
supply of cells for our products with higher energy density at lower costs, we
have developed a new proprietary lithium-ion battery cell and improved
manufacturing processes.

Vehicle Control and Infotainment Software

The performance and safety systems of our vehicles and their battery packs
utilize sophisticated control software. Control systems in our vehicles
optimize performance, customize vehicle behavior, manage charging and control
all infotainment functions. We develop almost all of this software, including
most of the user interfaces, internally and update our vehicles' software
regularly through over-the-air updates.

Self-Driving Development and Artificial Intelligence

We have expertise in developing technologies, systems and software to enable
self-driving vehicles using primarily vision-based technologies. Our FSD
Computer runs our neural networks in our vehicles, and we are also developing
additional computer hardware to better enable the massive amounts of field
data captured by our vehicles to continually train and improve these neural
networks for real-world performance.

Currently, we offer in our vehicles certain advanced driver assist systems
under our Autopilot and FSD options. Although at present the driver is
ultimately responsible for controlling the vehicle, our systems provide safety
and convenience functionality that relieves drivers of the most tedious and
potentially dangerous aspects of road travel much like the system that
airplane pilots use, when conditions permit. As with other vehicle systems, we
improve these functions in our vehicles over time through over-the-air
updates.

We intend to establish in the future an autonomous Tesla ride-hailing network,
which we expect would also allow us to access a new customer base even as
modes of transportation evolve.

We are also applying our artificial intelligence learnings from self-driving
technology to the field of robotics. For example, in 2022 we previewed
Optimus, a robotic humanoid which is controlled by the same AI system.

Energy Generation and Storage

Energy Storage Products

We leverage many of the component-level technologies from our vehicles in our
energy storage products. By taking a modular approach to the design of battery
systems, we can optimize manufacturing capacity of our energy storage
products. Additionally, our expertise in power electronics enables our battery
systems to interconnect with electricity grids while providing fast-acting
systems for power injection and absorption. We have also developed software to
remotely control and dispatch our energy storage systems.

Solar Energy Systems

We have engineered Solar Roof over numerous iterations to combine aesthetic
appeal and durability with power generation. The efficiency of our solar
energy products is aided by our own solar inverter, which incorporates our
power electronics technologies. We designed both products to integrate with
Powerwall.

5

* * *

Design and Engineering

Automotive

We have established significant in-house capabilities in the design and test
engineering of electric vehicles and their components and systems. Our team
has significant experience in computer-aided design as well as durability,
strength and crash test simulations, which reduces the product development
time of new models. We have also achieved complex engineering feats in
stamping, casting and thermal systems, and developed a method to integrate
batteries directly with vehicle body structures without separate battery packs
to optimize manufacturability, weight, range and cost characteristics.

We are also expanding our manufacturing operations globally while taking
action to localize our vehicle designs and production for particular markets,
including country-specific market demands and factory optimizations for local
workforces. As we increase our capabilities, particularly in the areas of
automation, die-making and line-building, we are also making strides in the
simulations modeling these capabilities prior to construction.

Energy Generation and Storage

Our expertise in electrical, mechanical, civil and software engineering allows
us to design, engineer, manufacture and install energy generating and storage
products and components, including at the residential through utility scale.
For example, the modular design of our Megapack utility-scale battery line is
intended to significantly reduce the amount of assembly required in the field.
We also customize solutions including our energy storage products, solar
energy systems and/or Solar Roof for customers to meet their specific needs.

Sales and Marketing

Historically, we have been able to generate significant media coverage of our
company and our products, and we believe we will continue to do so. Such media
coverage and word of mouth are the current primary drivers of our sales leads
and have helped us achieve sales without traditional advertising and at
relatively low marketing costs.

Automotive

Direct Sales

Our vehicle sales channels currently include our website and an international
network of company-owned stores. In some jurisdictions, we also have galleries
to educate and inform customers about our products, but such locations do not
transact in the sale of vehicles. We believe this infrastructure enables us to
better control costs of inventory, manage warranty service and pricing,
educate consumers about electric vehicles, maintain and strengthen the Tesla
brand and obtain rapid customer feedback.

We reevaluate our sales strategy both globally and at a location-by-location
level from time to time to optimize our sales channels. However, sales of
vehicles in the automobile industry tend to be cyclical in many markets, which
may expose us to volatility from time to time.

Used Vehicle Sales

Our used vehicle business supports new vehicle sales by integrating the trade-
in of a customer's existing Tesla or non-Tesla vehicle with the sale of a new
or used Tesla vehicle. The Tesla and non-Tesla vehicles we acquire as trade-
ins are subsequently remarketed, either directly by us or through third
parties. We also remarket used Tesla vehicles acquired from other sources
including lease returns.

Public Charging

We have a growing global network of Tesla Superchargers, which are our
industrial-grade, high-speed vehicle chargers. Where possible, we co-locate
Superchargers with our solar and energy storage systems to reduce costs and
promote renewable power. Supercharger stations are typically placed along
well-traveled routes and in and around dense city centers to allow vehicle
owners the ability to enjoy quick, reliable charging along an extensive
network with convenient stops. Use of the Supercharger network either requires
payment of a fee or is free under certain sales programs. In November 2021, we
began to offer Supercharger access to non-Tesla vehicles in certain locations
in support of our mission to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable
energy.

We also work with a wide variety of hospitality, retail and public
destinations, as well as businesses with commuting employees, to offer
additional charging options for our customers, as well as single-family
homeowners and multi-family residential entities, to deploy home charging
solutions.

6

* * *

In-App Upgrades

As our vehicles are capable of being updated remotely over-the-air, our
customers may purchase additional paid options and features through the Tesla
app or through the in-vehicle user interface. We expect that this
functionality will also allow us to offer certain options and features on a
subscription basis in the future.

Energy Generation and Storage

We market and sell our solar and energy storage products to residential,
commercial and industrial customers and utilities through a variety of
channels, including through our website, stores and galleries, as well as
through our network of channel partners, and in the case of some commercial
customers, through PPA transactions. We emphasize simplicity, standardization
and accessibility to make it easy and cost-effective for customers to adopt
clean energy, while reducing our customer acquisition costs.

Service and Warranty

Automotive

Service

We provide service for our electric vehicles at our company-owned service
locations and through Tesla Mobile Service technicians who perform work
remotely at customers' homes or other locations. Performing vehicle service
ourselves allows us to identify problems and implement solutions and
improvements faster, and optimize logistics and inventory better, than
traditional automobile manufacturers and their dealer networks. The
connectivity of our vehicles also allows us to diagnose and remedy many
problems remotely and proactively.

Vehicle Limited Warranties and Extended Service Plans

We provide a manufacturer's limited warranty on all new and used Tesla
vehicles we sell, which may include separate limited warranties on certain
components, specific types of damage or battery capacity retention. We also
currently offer extended service plans that provide coverage beyond the new
vehicle limited warranties for certain models in specified regions.

Energy Generation and Storage

We provide service and repairs to our energy product customers, including
under warranty where applicable. We generally provide manufacturer's limited
warranties with our energy storage products and offer certain extended limited
warranties that are available at the time of purchase of the system. If we
install a system, we also provide certain limited warranties on our
installation workmanship.

For retrofit solar energy systems, we provide separate limited warranties for
workmanship and against roof leaks, and for Solar Roof, we also provide
limited warranties for defects and weatherization. For components not
manufactured by us, we generally pass-through the applicable manufacturers'
warranties.

As part of our solar energy system and energy storage contracts, we may
provide the customer with performance guarantees that commit that the
underlying system will meet or exceed the minimum energy generation or
performance requirements specified in the contract.

Financial Services

Automotive

Purchase Financing and Leases

We offer leasing and/or loan financing arrangements for our vehicles in
certain jurisdictions in North America, Europe and Asia ourselves and through
various financial institutions. Under certain of such programs, we have
provided resale value guarantees or buyback guarantees that may obligate us to
repurchase the subject vehicles at pre-determined values.

Insurance

In 2021, we launched our insurance product using real-time driving behavior in
select states, which offers rates that are often better than other
alternatives and promotes safer driving. Our insurance products are currently
available in 12 states and we plan to expand the markets in which we offer
insurance products, as part of our ongoing effort to decrease the total cost
of ownership for our customers.

7

* * *

Energy Generation and Storage

We offer certain financing options to our solar customers, which enable the
customer to purchase and own a solar energy system, Solar Roof or integrated
solar and Powerwall system. Our solar PPAs, offered primarily to commercial
customers, charge a fee per kilowatt-hour based on the amount of electricity
produced by our solar energy systems.

Manufacturing

We currently have manufacturing facilities in the US in Northern California,
in Buffalo, New York, Gigafactory New York; in Austin, Texas, Gigafactory
Texas and near Reno, Nevada, Gigafactory Nevada. At these facilities, we
manufacture and assemble, among other things, vehicles, certain vehicle parts
and components, such as our battery packs and battery cells, energy storage
components and solar products and components.

Internationally, we also have manufacturing facilities in China (Gigafactory
Shanghai) and Germany (Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg), which allows us to
increase the affordability of our vehicles for customers in local markets by
reducing transportation and manufacturing costs and eliminating the impact of
unfavorable tariffs. Generally, we continue to expand production capacity at
our existing facilities. We also intend to further increase cost-
competitiveness in our significant markets by strategically adding local
manufacturing.

Supply Chain

Our products use thousands of parts that are sourced from hundreds of
suppliers across the world. We have developed close relationships with vendors
of key parts such as battery cells, electronics and complex vehicle
assemblies. Certain components purchased from these suppliers are shared or
are similar across many product lines, allowing us to take advantage of
pricing efficiencies from economies of scale.

As is the case for some automotive companies, some of our procured components
and systems are sourced from single suppliers. Where multiple sources are
available for certain key components, we work to qualify multiple suppliers
for them where it is sensible to do so in order to minimize potential
production risks due to disruptions in their supply. We also mitigate risk by
maintaining safety stock for key parts and assemblies and die banks for
components with lengthy procurement lead times.

Our products use various raw materials including aluminum, steel, cobalt,
lithium, nickel and copper. Pricing for these materials is governed by market
conditions and may fluctuate due to various factors outside of our control,
such as supply and demand and market speculation. We strive to execute long-
term supply contracts for such materials at competitive pricing when feasible,
and we currently believe that we have adequate access to raw materials
supplies to meet the needs of our operations.

Governmental Programs, Incentives and Regulations

Globally, the ownership of our products by our customers is impacted by
various government credits, incentives, and policies. Our business and
products are also subject to numerous governmental regulations that vary among
jurisdictions.

The operation of our business is also impacted by various government programs,
incentives, and other arrangements. See Note 2, Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.

Programs and Incentives

Inflation Reduction Act

On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 ("IRA") was enacted
into law and is effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2022,
and remains subject to future guidance releases. The IRA includes multiple
incentives to promote clean energy, electric vehicles, battery and energy
storage manufacture or purchase, including through providing tax credits to
consumers. For example, qualifying Tesla customers may receive up to $7,500 in
federal tax credits for the purchase of qualified electric vehicles in the U.S
through 2032.

Automotive Regulatory Credits

We earn tradable credits in the operation of our business under various
regulations related to zero-emission vehicles ("ZEVs"), greenhouse gas, fuel
economy and clean fuel. We sell these credits to other regulated entities who
can use the credits to comply with emission standards and other regulatory
requirements. Sales of these credits are recognized within automotive
regulatory credits revenue in our consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

8

* * *

Energy Storage System Incentives and Policies

While the regulatory regime for energy storage projects is still under
development, there are various policies, incentives and financial mechanisms
at the federal, state and local levels that support the adoption of energy
storage.

For example, energy storage systems that are charged using solar energy may be
eligible for the solar energy-related U.S. federal tax credits described
below. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") has also taken steps
to enable the participation of energy storage in wholesale energy markets. In
addition, California and a number of other states have adopted procurement
targets for energy storage, and behind-the-meter energy storage systems
qualify for funding under the California Self Generation Incentive Program.
Our customers primarily benefit directly under these programs. In certain
instances our customers may transfer such credits to us as contract
consideration. In such transactions, they are included as a component of
energy generation and storage revenues in our consolidated financial
statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Pursuant to the IRA, under Sections 48, 48E and 25D of the Internal Revenue
Code ("IRC"), standalone energy storage technology is eligible for a tax
credit between 6% and 50% of qualified expenditures, regardless of the source
of energy, which may be claimed by our customers for storage systems they
purchase or by us for arrangements where we own the systems. These tax credits
are primarily for the benefit of our customers and are currently scheduled to
phase-out starting in 2032 or later.

Solar Energy System Incentives and Policies

U.S. federal, state and local governments have established various policies,
incentives and financial mechanisms to reduce the cost of solar energy and to
accelerate the adoption of solar energy. These incentives include tax credits,
cash grants, tax abatements and rebates.

In particular, pursuant to the IRA, Sections 48, 48E and 25D of the IRC
provides a tax credit between 6% and 70% of qualified commercial or
residential expenditures for solar energy systems, which may be claimed by our
customers for systems they purchase, or by us for arrangements where we own
the systems for properties that meet statutory requirements. These tax credits
are primarily for the direct benefit of our customers and are currently
scheduled to phase-out starting in 2023 or later.

Regulations

Vehicle Safety and Testing

In the U.S., our vehicles are subject to regulation by the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration ("NHTSA"), including all applicable Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standards ("FMVSS") and the NHTSA bumper standard.
Numerous FMVSS apply to our vehicles, such as crash-worthiness and occupant
protection requirements. Our current vehicles fully comply and we expect that
our vehicles in the future will fully comply with all applicable FMVSS with
limited or no exemptions, however, FMVSS are subject to change from time to
time. As a manufacturer, we must self-certify that our vehicles meet all
applicable FMVSS and the NHTSA bumper standard, or otherwise are exempt,
before the vehicles may be imported or sold in the U.S.

We are also required to comply with other federal laws administered by NHTSA,
including the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, Theft Prevention Act
requirements, labeling requirements and other information provided to
customers in writing, Early Warning Reporting requirements regarding warranty
claims, field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls, a
Standing General Order requiring reports regarding crashes involving vehicles
equipped with advanced driver assistance systems, and additional requirements
for cooperating with compliance and safety investigations and recall
reporting. The U.S. Automobile Information and Disclosure Act also requires
manufacturers of motor vehicles to disclose certain information regarding the
manufacturer's suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In
addition, federal law requires inclusion of fuel economy ratings, as
determined by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Environmental
Protection Agency (the "EPA"), and New Car Assessment Program ratings as
determined by NHTSA, if available.

Our vehicles sold outside of the U.S. are subject to similar foreign
compliance, safety, environmental and other regulations. Many of those
regulations are different from those applicable in the U.S. and may require
redesign and/or retesting. Some of those regulations impact or prevent the
rollout of new vehicle features. Additionally, the European Union established
new rules regarding additional compliance oversight that commenced in 2020.

Self-Driving Vehicles

Generally, laws pertaining to self-driving vehicles are evolving globally, and
in some cases may create restrictions on features that we develop. While there
are currently no federal U.S. regulations pertaining specifically to self-
driving vehicles or self-driving equipment, NHTSA has published recommended
guidelines on self-driving vehicles, apart from the FMVSS and manufacturer
reporting obligations, and retains the authority to investigate and/or take
action on the safety or compliance of any vehicle, equipment or features
operating on public roads. Certain U.S. states also have legal restrictions on
the operation, registration or licensure of self-driving vehicles, and many
other states are considering them. This regulatory patchwork increases the
legal complexity with respect to self-driving vehicles in the U.S.

9

* * *

In markets that follow the regulations of the United Nations Economic
Commission for Europe, some requirements restrict the design of advanced
driver-assistance or self-driving features, which can compromise or prevent
their use entirely. Other applicable laws, both current and proposed, may
hinder the path and timeline to introducing self-driving vehicles for sale and
use in the markets where they apply.

Other key markets, including China, continue to consider self-driving
regulation. Any implemented regulations may differ materially from those in
the U.S. and Europe, which may further increase the legal complexity of self-
driving vehicles and limit or prevent certain features.

Automobile Manufacturer and Dealer Regulation

In the U.S., state laws regulate the manufacture, distribution, sale and
service of automobiles, and generally require motor vehicle manufacturers and
dealers to be licensed in order to sell vehicles directly to residents.
Certain states have asserted that the laws in such states do not permit
automobile manufacturers to be licensed as dealers or to act in the capacity
of a dealer, or that they otherwise restrict a manufacturer's ability to
deliver or perform warranty repairs on vehicles. To sell vehicles to residents
of states where we are not licensed as a dealer, we generally conduct the sale
out of the state. In certain such states, we have opened "galleries" that
serve an educational purpose and where sales may not occur.

Some automobile dealer trade associations have both challenged the legality of
our operations in court and used administrative and legislative processes to
attempt to prohibit or limit our ability to operate existing stores or expand
to new locations. Certain dealer associations have also actively lobbied state
licensing agencies and legislators to interpret existing laws or enact new
laws in ways not favorable to our ownership and operation of our own retail
and service locations. We expect such challenges to continue, and we intend to
actively fight any such efforts.

Battery Safety and Testing

Our battery packs are subject to various U.S. and international regulations
that govern transport of "dangerous goods," defined to include lithium-ion
batteries, which may present a risk in transportation. We conduct testing to
demonstrate our compliance with such regulations.

We use lithium-ion cells in our high voltage battery packs in our vehicles and
energy storage products. The use, storage and disposal of our battery packs
are regulated under existing laws and are the subject of ongoing regulatory
changes that may add additional requirements in the future. We have agreements
with third party battery recycling companies to recycle our battery packs, and
we are also piloting our own recycling technology.

Solar Energy--General

We are subject to certain state and federal regulations applicable to solar
and battery storage providers and sellers of electricity. To operate our
systems, we enter into standard interconnection agreements with applicable
utilities. Sales of electricity and non-sale equipment leases by third
parties, such as our leases and PPAs, have faced regulatory challenges in some
states and jurisdictions.

Solar Energy--Net Metering

Most states in the U.S. make net energy metering, or net metering, available
to solar customers. Net metering typically allows solar customers to
interconnect their solar energy systems to the utility grid and offset their
utility electricity purchases by receiving a bill credit for excess energy
generated by their solar energy system that is exported to the grid. In
certain jurisdictions, regulators or utilities have reduced or eliminated the
benefit available under net metering or have proposed to do so.

Competition

Automotive

The worldwide automotive market is highly competitive and we expect it will
become even more competitive in the future as we introduce additional vehicles
in a broader cross-section of the passenger and commercial vehicle market and
expand our vehicles' capabilities.

10

* * *

We believe that our vehicles compete in the market based on both their
traditional segment classification as well as their propulsion technology. For
example, Model S and Model X compete primarily with premium sedans and premium
SUVs and Model 3 and Model Y compete with small to medium-sized sedans and
compact SUVs, which are extremely competitive markets. Competing products
typically include internal combustion vehicles from more established
automobile manufacturers; however, many established and new automobile
manufacturers have entered or have announced plans to enter the market for
electric and other alternative fuel vehicles. Overall, we believe these
announcements and vehicle introductions, including the introduction of
electric vehicles into rental car company fleets, promote the development of
the electric vehicle market by highlighting the attractiveness of electric
vehicles relative to the internal combustion vehicle. Many major automobile
manufacturers have electric vehicles available today in major markets
including the U.S., China and Europe, and other current and prospective
automobile manufacturers are also developing electric vehicles. In addition,
several manufacturers offer hybrid vehicles, including plug-in versions.

We believe that there is also increasing competition for our vehicle offerings
as a platform for delivering self-driving technologies, charging solutions and
other features and services, and we expect to compete in this developing
market through continued progress on our Autopilot, FSD and neural network
capabilities, Supercharger network and our infotainment offerings.

Energy Generation and Storage

Energy Storage Systems

The market for energy storage products is also highly competitive, and both
established and emerging companies have introduced products that are similar
to our product portfolio or that are alternatives to the elements of our
systems. We compete with these companies based on price, energy density and
efficiency. We believe that the specifications and features of our products,
our strong brand and the modular, scalable nature of our energy storage
products give us a competitive advantage in our markets.

Solar Energy Systems

The primary competitors to our solar energy business are the traditional local
utility companies that supply energy to our potential customers. We compete
with these traditional utility companies primarily based on price and the ease
by which customers can switch to electricity generated by our solar energy
systems. We also compete with solar energy companies that provide products and
services similar to ours. Many solar energy companies only install solar
energy systems, while others only provide financing for these installations.
We believe we have a significant expansion opportunity with our offerings and
that the regulatory environment is increasingly conducive to the adoption of
renewable energy systems.

Intellectual Property

We place a strong emphasis on our innovative approach and proprietary designs
which bring intrinsic value and uniqueness to our product portfolio. As part
of our business, we seek to protect the underlying intellectual property
rights of these innovations and designs such as with respect to patents,
trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, including through
employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual
arrangements. For example, we place a high priority on obtaining patents to
provide the broadest and strongest possible protection to enable our freedom
to operate our innovations and designs within our products and technologies in
the electric vehicle market as well as to protect and defend our product
portfolio. We have also adopted a patent policy in which we irrevocably
pledged that we will not initiate a lawsuit against any party for infringing
our patents through activity relating to electric vehicles or related
equipment for so long as such party is acting in good faith. We made this
pledge in order to encourage the advancement of a common, rapidly-evolving
platform for electric vehicles, thereby benefiting ourselves, other companies
making electric vehicles and the world.

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) and Human Capital Resources

ESG

The very purpose of Tesla's existence is to accelerate the world's transition
to sustainable energy. We believe the world cannot reduce carbon emissions
without addressing both energy generation and consumption, and we are
designing and manufacturing a complete energy and transportation ecosystem to
achieve this goal. As we expand, we are building each new factory to be more
efficient and sustainably designed than the previous one, including with
respect to per-unit waste reduction and resource consumption, including water
and energy usage. We are focused on further enhancing sustainability of
operations outside of our direct control, including reducing the carbon
footprint of our supply chain.

11

* * *

We are committed to sourcing only responsibly produced materials, and our
suppliers are required to provide evidence of management systems that ensure
social, environmental and sustainability best practices in their own
operations, as well as to demonstrate a commitment to responsible sourcing
into their supply chains. We have a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to
child or forced labor and human trafficking by our suppliers and we look to
the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development Due Diligence
Guidelines to inform our process and use feedback from our internal and
external stakeholders to find ways to continually improve. We are also driving
safety in our own factories by focusing on worker engagement. Our incidents
per vehicle continue to drop even as our production volumes increase. We also
strive to be an employer of choice by offering compelling, impactful jobs with
best in-industry benefits.

We believe that sound corporate governance is critical to helping us achieve
our goals, including with respect to ESG. We continue to evolve a governance
framework that exercises appropriate oversight of responsibilities at all
levels throughout the company and manages its affairs consistent with high
principles of business ethics. Our ESG Sustainability Council is made up of
leaders from across our company, and regularly presents to our Board of
Directors, which oversees our ESG impacts, initiatives and priorities.

Human Capital Resources

Our greatest asset is our people and we continue to attract the best and
brightest with our competitive pay and benefits package which starts with
ownership. We offer employees the opportunity to receive equity during their
employment and share in the success of Tesla. As of December 31, 2022, our
full-time count for our and our subsidiaries' employees worldwide was 127,855,
a 29,000 year over year increase.

We are committed to providing a workplace where our employees feel respected
and appreciated. Human Resource ("HR") Partners for each functional area are
introduced in new hire orientation so employees know whom to contact with
questions or concerns. HR Partners are visible throughout facilities and are
actively involved in driving culture and engagement alongside business
leaders.

Our policies are designed to promote fairness and respect for everyone. We
hire, evaluate, and promote employees based on their skills and performance.
Everyone is expected to be trustworthy, demonstrate excellence in their
performance, and collaborate with others. With this in mind, we will not
tolerate certain behaviors. These include harassment, retaliation, violence,
intimidation, and discrimination of any kind on the basis of race, color,
religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender
expression, age, disability or veteran status.

To ensure this, anti-harassment training is conducted on day one of new hire
orientation for all employees. In addition, we run various leadership
development programs throughout the year aimed at enhancing leaders' skills,
and in particular, helping them to understand how to appropriately respond to
employee concerns.

Through our See Something, Say Something program, employees are encouraged to
speak up both in regard to misconduct and safety concerns. They can do so by
contacting the integrity line, submitting concerns through our Take Charge
process, or notifying their HR Partner or any member of management. Concerns
are reviewed in accordance with established protocols by investigators with
expertise, who also review for trends and outcomes for remediation and
appropriate controls.

Responding to questions timely is key so we implemented HR Answer Bars in the
factories where employees can easily access and speak with an HR
representative immediately regarding career advice, benefits or any concerns
the employee may have. We have also implemented an HR Chatbot for 24x7 answers
to team members' questions.

12

* * *

To continue innovating and changing the world for the better, we must ensure
we have a talented and engaged workforce with ample opportunity to contribute
to our mission and grow professionally. We are focused on intentionally
creating pathways to career opportunities across Tesla through strategic
initiatives such as:

•

Internships and Apprenticeships \- Over 3,000 university and community college
students from around the world are hired into internship and apprenticeship
opportunities at Tesla annually. We recruit from over 100 collegiate
institutions and diverse student organizations, attracting top talent
passionate about accelerating the world's transition to sustainable energy.

•

Tesla START \- Tesla START is an intensive training program providing
individuals with the skills necessary for a successful technician role at
Tesla. We partner with 13 colleges across the country to integrate Tesla START
into automotive, collision and manufacturing curriculums to provide
individuals with a smooth transition from college to full-time employment. In
2022, we had over 200 graduates from Tesla START programs, with an additional
100+ graduating in the coming weeks from our winter classes.

•

High School Graduate Pathways - Tesla's Manufacturing Development Program is
designed to provide graduating high school seniors with the financial
resources, coursework and experience they need to start a successful
manufacturing career at Tesla. We hired 144 graduates through this program in
2022, and our goal in 2023 is to grow this program 2.5X to over 360 students
annually across our Fremont Factory, Gigafactory Nevada, Gigafactory Texas,
and Gigafactory New York.

At Tesla, our employees show up passionate about making a difference in the
world and for each other. With a majority-minority workforce, empowering our
employee resource groups to take charge in driving initiatives that attract,
develop and retain our passionate workforce is vital to our continued success.

Available Information

We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including our
Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current
Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. In
addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports,
proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically. Our website is located at www.tesla.com, and our reports,
amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made
available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at ir.tesla.com
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such
information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

13

* * *

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the
other information set forth in this report, which could materially affect our
business, financial condition and future results. The risks described below
are not the only risks facing our company. Risks and uncertainties not
currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may
materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating
results.

Risks Related to Our Ability to Grow Our Business

We may be impacted by macroeconomic conditions resulting from the global
COVID-19 pandemic.

Since the first quarter of 2020, there has been a worldwide impact from the
COVID-19 pandemic. Government regulations and shifting social behaviors have,
at times, limited or closed non-essential transportation, government
functions, business activities and person-to-person interactions. Global trade
conditions and consumer trends that originated during the pandemic continue to
persist and may also have long-lasting adverse impact on us and our industries
independently of the progress of the pandemic.

For example, pandemic-related issues have exacerbated port congestion and
intermittent supplier shutdowns and delays, resulting in additional expenses
to expedite delivery of critical parts. Similarly, increased demand for
personal electronics has created a shortfall of semiconductors, which has
caused challenges in our supply chain and production. In addition, labor
shortages resulting from the pandemic, including worker absenteeism, has led
to increased difficulty in hiring and retaining manufacturing and service
workers, as well as increased labor costs and supplier delays. Sustaining our
production trajectory will require the ongoing readiness and solvency of our
suppliers and vendors, a stable and motivated production workforce and
government cooperation, including for travel and visa allowances. The
contingencies inherent in the ramp at new facilities such as Gigafactory
Berlin-Brandenburg and Gigafactory Texas may be exacerbated by these
challenges. Additionally, infection rates and regulations continue to
fluctuate in various regions, which may impact operations. For example, in
2022, spikes in COVID-19 cases in Shanghai resulted in the temporary shutdown
of Gigafactory Shanghai, as well as parts of our supply chain, and impacted
our ability to deliver cars.

We cannot predict the duration or direction of current global trends or their
sustained impact. Ultimately, we continue to monitor macroeconomic conditions
to remain flexible and to optimize and evolve our business as appropriate, and
attempt to accurately project demand and infrastructure requirements globally
and deploy our production, workforce and other resources accordingly. Lastly,
rising interest rates may lead to consumers to increasingly pull back
spending, including on our products, which may harm our demand, business and
operating results. If we experience unfavorable global market conditions, or
if we cannot or do not maintain operations at a scope that is commensurate
with such conditions or are later required to or choose to suspend such
operations again, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating
results may be harmed.

We may experience delays in launching and ramping the production of our
products and features, or we may be unable to control our manufacturing costs.

We have previously experienced and may in the future experience launch and
production ramp delays for new products and features. For example, we
encountered unanticipated supplier issues that led to delays during the
initial ramp of our first Model X and experienced challenges with a supplier
and with ramping full automation for certain of our initial Model 3
manufacturing processes. In

14

* * *

addition, we may introduce in the future new or unique manufacturing processes
and design features for our products. There is no guarantee that we will be
able to successfully and timely introduce and scale such processes or
features.

In particular, our future business depends in large part on increasing the
production of mass-market vehicles including Model 3 and Model Y. In order to
be successful, we will need to implement, maintain and ramp efficient and
cost-effective manufacturing capabilities, processes and supply chains and
achieve the design tolerances, high quality and output rates we have planned
at our manufacturing facilities in California, Nevada, Texas, China, Germany
and any future sites. We will also need to hire, train and compensate skilled
employees to operate these facilities. Bottlenecks and other unexpected
challenges such as those we experienced in the past may arise during our
production ramps, and we must address them promptly while continuing to
improve manufacturing processes and reducing costs. If we are not successful
in achieving these goals, we could face delays in establishing and/or
sustaining our Model 3 and Model Y ramps or be unable to meet our related cost
and profitability targets.

We have experienced, and may also experience similar future delays in
launching and/or ramping production of our energy storage products and Solar
Roof; new product versions or variants; new vehicles; and future features and
services based on artificial intelligence. Likewise, we may encounter delays
with the design, construction and regulatory or other approvals necessary to
build and bring online future manufacturing facilities and products.

Any delay or other complication in ramping the production of our current
products or the development, manufacture, launch and production ramp of our
future products, features and services, or in doing so cost-effectively and
with high quality, may harm our brand, business, prospects, financial
condition and operating results.

Our suppliers may fail to deliver components according to schedules, prices,
quality and volumes that are acceptable to us, or we may be unable to manage
these components effectively.

Our products contain thousands of parts purchased globally from hundreds of
suppliers, including single-source direct suppliers, which exposes us to
multiple potential sources of component shortages. Unexpected changes in
business conditions, materials pricing, including inflation of raw material
costs, labor issues, wars, trade policies, natural disasters, health epidemics
such as the global COVID-19 pandemic, trade and shipping disruptions, port
congestions and other factors beyond our or our suppliers' control could also
affect these suppliers' ability to deliver components to us or to remain
solvent and operational. For example, a global shortage of semiconductors has
been reported since early 2021 and has caused challenges in the manufacturing
industry and impacted our supply chain and production. In addition, a spike in
COVID-19 cases in Shanghai in early 2022 led to temporary manufacturing
shutdowns of certain of our suppliers. We have used alternative parts and
programmed software to mitigate certain challenges caused by these shortages,
but there is no guarantee we may be able to continually do so as we scale
production to meet our growth targets. Additionally, if our suppliers do not
accurately forecast and effectively allocate production or if they are not
willing to allocate sufficient production to us, it may reduce our access to
components and require us to search for new suppliers. The unavailability of
any component or supplier could result in production delays, idle
manufacturing facilities, product design changes and loss of access to
important technology and tools for producing and supporting our products, as
well as impact our capacity expansion and our ability to fulfill our
obligations under customer contracts. Moreover, significant increases in our
production, such as for Model 3 and Model Y, or product design changes by us
have required and may in the future require us to procure additional
components in a short amount of time. We have faced in the past, and may face
suppliers who are unwilling or unable to sustainably meet our timelines or our
cost, quality and volume needs, or to do so may cost us more, which may
require us to replace them with other sources. Finally, we have limited
vehicle manufacturing experience outside of the Fremont Factory and
Gigafactory Shanghai and we may experience issues increasing the level of
localized procurement at Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg and Gigafactory Texas.
While we believe that we will be able to secure additional or alternate
sources or develop our own replacements for most of our components, there is
no assurance that we will be able to do so quickly or at all. Additionally, we
may be unsuccessful in our continuous efforts to negotiate with existing
suppliers to obtain cost reductions and avoid unfavorable changes to terms,
source less expensive suppliers for certain parts and redesign certain parts
to make them less expensive to produce, especially in light of the increases
in materials pricing. Any of these occurrences may harm our business,
prospects, financial condition and operating results.

As the scale of our vehicle production increases, we will also need to
accurately forecast, purchase, warehouse and transport components at high
volumes to our manufacturing facilities and servicing locations
internationally. If we are unable to accurately match the timing and
quantities of component purchases to our actual needs or successfully
implement automation, inventory

15

* * *

management and other systems to accommodate the increased complexity in our
supply chain and parts management, we may incur unexpected production
disruption, storage, transportation and write-off costs, which may harm our
business and operating results.

We may be unable to meet our projected construction timelines, costs and
production ramps at new factories, or we may experience difficulties in
generating and maintaining demand for products manufactured there.

Our ability to increase production of our vehicles on a sustained basis, make
them affordable globally by accessing local supply chains and workforces and
streamline delivery logistics is dependent on the construction and ramp of our
current and future factories. The construction of and commencement and ramp of
production at these factories are subject to a number of uncertainties
inherent in all new manufacturing operations, including ongoing compliance
with regulatory requirements, procurement and maintenance of construction,
environmental and operational licenses and approvals for additional expansion,
supply chain constraints, hiring, training and retention of qualified
employees and the pace of bringing production equipment and processes online
with the capability to manufacture high-quality units at scale. Moreover, we
will have to establish and ramp production of our proprietary battery cells
and packs at our new factories, and we additionally intend to incorporate
sequential design and manufacturing changes into vehicles manufactured at each
new factory. If we experience any issues or delays in meeting our projected
timelines, costs, capital efficiency and production capacity for our new
factories, expanding and managing teams to implement iterative design and
production changes there, maintaining and complying with the terms of any debt
financing that we obtain to fund them or generating and maintaining demand for
the vehicles we manufacture there, our business, prospects, operating results
and financial condition may be harmed.

We may be unable to grow our global product sales, delivery and installation
capabilities and our servicing and vehicle charging networks, or we may be
unable to accurately project and effectively manage our growth.

Our success will depend on our ability to continue to expand our sales
capabilities. We are targeting with Model 3 and Model Y a global mass
demographic with a broad range of potential customers, in which we have
relatively limited experience projecting demand and pricing our products. We
currently produce numerous international variants at a limited number of
factories, and if our specific demand expectations for these variants prove
inaccurate, we may not be able to timely generate deliveries matched to the
vehicles that we produce in the same timeframe or that are commensurate with
the size of our operations in a given region. Likewise, as we develop and grow
our energy products and services worldwide, our success will depend on our
ability to correctly forecast demand in various markets.

Because we do not have independent dealer networks, we are responsible for
delivering all of our vehicles to our customers. As our production volumes
continue to grow, we have faced in the past, and may face challenges with
deliveries at increasing volumes, particularly in international markets
requiring significant transit times. We have also deployed a number of
delivery models, such as deliveries to customers' homes and workplaces and
touchless deliveries, but there is no guarantee that such models will be
scalable or be accepted globally. Likewise, as we ramp our energy products, we
are working to substantially increase our production and installation
capabilities. If we experience production delays or inaccurately forecast
demand, our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed.

Moreover, because of our unique expertise with our vehicles, we recommend that
our vehicles be serviced by us or by certain authorized professionals. If we
experience delays in adding servicing capacity or servicing our vehicles
efficiently, or experience unforeseen issues with the reliability of our
vehicles, particularly higher-volume additions to our fleet such as Model 3
and Model Y, it could overburden our servicing capabilities and parts
inventory. Similarly, the increasing number of Tesla vehicles also requires us
to continue to rapidly increase the number of our Supercharger stations and
connectors throughout the world.

There is no assurance that we will be able to ramp our business to meet our
sales, delivery, installation, servicing and vehicle charging targets
globally, that our projections on which such targets are based will prove
accurate or that the pace of growth or coverage of our customer infrastructure
network will meet customer expectations. These plans require significant cash
investments and management resources and there is no guarantee that they will
generate additional sales or installations of our products, or that we will be
able to avoid cost overruns or be able to hire additional personnel to support
them. As we expand, we will also need to ensure our compliance with regulatory
requirements in various jurisdictions applicable to the sale, installation and
servicing of our products, the sale or dispatch of electricity related to our
energy products and the operation of Superchargers. If we fail to manage our
growth effectively, it may harm our brand, business, prospects, financial
condition and operating results.

We will need to maintain and significantly grow our access to battery cells,
including through the development and manufacture of our own cells, and
control our related costs.

We are dependent on the continued supply of lithium-ion battery cells for our
vehicles and energy storage products, and we will require substantially more
cells to grow our business according to our plans. Currently, we rely on
suppliers such as Panasonic and Contemporary Amperex Technology Co. Limited
(CATL) for these cells. We have to date fully qualified only a very limited
number of such suppliers and have limited flexibility in changing suppliers.
Any disruption in the supply of battery cells from our suppliers could limit
production of our vehicles and energy storage products. In the long term, we
intend to supplement cells from our suppliers with cells manufactured by us,
which we believe will be more efficient, manufacturable at greater volumes and
more cost-effective

16

* * *

than currently available cells. However, our efforts to develop and
manufacture such battery cells have required, and may continue to require,
significant investments, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to
achieve these targets in the timeframes that we have planned or at all. If we
are unable to do so, we may have to curtail our planned vehicle and energy
storage product production or procure additional cells from suppliers at
potentially greater costs, either of which may harm our business and operating
results.

In addition, the cost and mass production of battery cells, whether
manufactured by our suppliers or by us, depends in part upon the prices and
availability of raw materials such as lithium, nickel, cobalt and/or other
metals. The prices for these materials fluctuate and their available supply
may be unstable, depending on market conditions and global demand for these
materials. For example, as a result of increased global production of electric
vehicles and energy storage products, suppliers of these raw materials may be
unable to meet our volume needs. Additionally, our suppliers may not be
willing or able to reliably meet our timelines or our cost and quality needs,
which may require us to replace them with other sources. Any reduced
availability of these materials may impact our access to cells and our growth,
and any increases in their prices may reduce our profitability if we cannot
recoup such costs through increased prices. Moreover, our inability to meet
demand and any product price increases may harm our brand, growth, prospects
and operating results.

Our future growth and success are dependent upon consumers' demand for
electric vehicles and specifically our vehicles in an automotive industry that
is generally competitive, cyclical and volatile.

Though we continue to see increased interest and adoption of electric
vehicles, if the market for electric vehicles in general and Tesla vehicles in
particular does not develop as we expect, develops more slowly than we expect,
or if demand for our vehicles decreases in our markets or our vehicles compete
with each other, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating
results may be harmed.

In addition, electric vehicles still constitute a small percentage of overall
vehicle sales. As a result, the market for our vehicles could be negatively
affected by numerous factors, such as:

•

perceptions about electric vehicle features, quality, safety, performance and
cost;

•

perceptions about the limited range over which electric vehicles may be driven
on a single battery charge, and access to charging facilities;

•

competition, including from other types of alternative fuel vehicles, plug-in
hybrid electric vehicles and high fuel-economy internal combustion engine
vehicles;

•

volatility in the cost of oil, gasoline and energy, such as wide fluctuations
in crude oil prices during 2020;

•

government regulations and economic incentives and conditions; and

•

concerns about our future viability.

Finally, the target demographics for our vehicles, particularly Model 3 and
Model Y, are highly competitive. Sales of vehicles in the automotive industry
tend to be cyclical in many markets, which may expose us to further
volatility.

We face strong competition for our products and services from a growing list
of established and new competitors.

The worldwide automotive market is highly competitive today and we expect it
will become even more so in the future. For example, Model 3 and Model Y face
competition from existing and future automobile manufacturers in the extremely
competitive entry-level premium sedan and compact SUV markets. A significant
and growing number of established and new automobile manufacturers, as well as
other companies, have entered, or are reported to have plans to enter, the
market for electric and other alternative fuel vehicles, including hybrid,
plug-in hybrid and fully electric vehicles, as well as the market for self-
driving technology and other vehicle applications and software platforms. In
some cases, our competitors offer or will offer electric vehicles in important
markets such as China and Europe, and/or have announced an intention to
produce electric vehicles exclusively at some point in the future. Many of our
competitors have significantly more or better-established resources than we do
to devote to the design, development, manufacturing, distribution, promotion,
sale and support of their products. Increased competition could result in our
lower vehicle unit sales, price reductions, revenue shortfalls, loss of
customers and loss of market share, which may harm our business, financial
condition and operating results.

We also face competition in our energy generation and storage business from
other manufacturers, developers, installers and service providers of competing
energy technologies, as well as from large utilities. Decreases in the retail
or wholesale prices of electricity from utilities or other renewable energy
sources could make our products less attractive to customers and lead to an
increased rate of customer defaults.

17

* * *

Risks Related to Our Operations

We may experience issues with lithium-ion cells or other components
manufactured at our Gigafactories, which may harm the production and
profitability of our vehicle and energy storage products.

Our plan to grow the volume and profitability of our vehicles and energy
storage products depends on significant lithium-ion battery cell production,
including by our partner Panasonic at Gigafactory Nevada. We also produce
several vehicle components at our Gigafactories, such as battery modules and
packs and drive units, and manufacture energy storage products. In the past,
some of the manufacturing lines for certain product components took longer
than anticipated to ramp to their full capacity, and additional bottlenecks
may arise in the future as we continue to increase the production rate and
introduce new lines. In addition, as the IRA provides new incentives for
domestic energy production and manufacturing, we may face increasing
competition from other automobile manufacturers as well as suppliers for the
resources and capacity to build additional factories and expand our operations
domestically. If we are unable to or otherwise do not maintain and grow our
respective operations, or if we are unable to do so cost-effectively or hire
and retain highly-skilled personnel there, our ability to manufacture our
products profitably would be limited, which may harm our business and
operating results.

Finally, the high volumes of lithium-ion cells and battery modules and packs
manufactured by us and by our suppliers are stored and recycled at our various
facilities. Any mishandling of these products may cause disruption to the
operation of such facilities. While we have implemented safety procedures
related to the handling of the cells, there can be no assurance that a safety
issue or fire related to the cells would not disrupt our operations. Any such
disruptions or issues may harm our brand and business.

We face risks associated with maintaining and expanding our international
operations, including unfavorable and uncertain regulatory, political,
economic, tax and labor conditions.

We are subject to legal and regulatory requirements, political uncertainty and
social, environmental and economic conditions in numerous jurisdictions,
including markets in which we generate significant sales, over which we have
little control and which are inherently unpredictable. Our operations in such
jurisdictions, particularly as a company based in the U.S., create risks
relating to conforming our products to regulatory and safety requirements and
charging and other electric infrastructures; organizing local operating
entities; establishing, staffing and managing foreign business locations;
attracting local customers; navigating foreign government taxes, regulations
and permit requirements; enforceability of our contractual rights; trade
restrictions, customs regulations, tariffs and price or exchange controls; and
preferences in foreign nations for domestically manufactured products. Such
conditions may increase our costs, impact our ability to sell our products and
require significant management attention, and may harm our business if we are
unable to manage them effectively.

Our business may suffer if our products or features contain defects, fail to
perform as expected or take longer than expected to become fully functional.

If our products contain design or manufacturing defects that cause them not to
perform as expected or that require repair, or certain features of our
vehicles such as new Autopilot or FSD features take longer than expected to
become enabled, are legally restricted or become subject to onerous
regulation, our ability to develop, market and sell our products and services
may be harmed, and we may experience delivery delays, product recalls, product
liability, breach of warranty and consumer protection claims and significant
warranty and other expenses. There is no guarantee that any incremental
changes in the specific equipment we deploy in our vehicles over time will not
result in initial functional disparities from prior iterations or will perform
as expected in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all.

Our products are also highly dependent on software, which is inherently
complex and may contain latent defects or errors or be subject to external
attacks. Issues experienced by our customers have included those related to
taillights, seat belt chimes and display screens in certain Tesla models.
Although we attempt to remedy any issues we observe in our products as
effectively and rapidly as possible, such efforts may not be timely, may
hamper production or may not completely satisfy our customers. While we have
performed, and continue to perform, extensive internal testing on our products
and features, we currently have a limited frame of reference by which to
evaluate their long-term quality, reliability, durability and performance
characteristics. There can be no assurance that we will be able to detect and
fix any defects in our products prior to their sale to or installation for
customers.

We may be required to defend or insure against product liability claims.

The automobile industry generally experiences significant product liability
claims, and as such we face the risk of such claims in the event our vehicles
do not perform or are claimed to not have performed as expected. As is true
for other automakers, our vehicles have been involved and we expect in the
future will be involved in accidents resulting in death or personal injury,
and such accidents where Autopilot, Enhanced Autopilot or FSD Capability
features are engaged are the subject of significant public attention,
especially in light of NHTSA's Standing General Order requiring reports
regarding crashes involving vehicles with advanced driver assistance systems.
We have experienced, and we expect to continue to face, claims and regulatory
scrutiny arising from or related to misuse or claimed failures or alleged
misrepresentations of such new technologies that we are pioneering. In
addition, the battery packs that we produce make use of lithium-ion cells. On
rare occasions, lithium-ion cells can rapidly release the energy they contain
by venting

18

* * *

smoke and flames in a manner that can ignite nearby materials as well as other
lithium-ion cells. While we have designed our battery packs to passively
contain any single cell's release of energy without spreading to neighboring
cells, there can be no assurance that a field or testing failure of our
vehicles or other battery packs that we produce will not occur, in particular
due to a high-speed crash. Likewise, as our solar energy systems and energy
storage products generate and store electricity, they have the potential to
fail or cause injury to people or property. Any product liability claim may
subject us to lawsuits and substantial monetary damages, product recalls or
redesign efforts, and even a meritless claim may require us to defend it, all
of which may generate negative publicity and be expensive and time-consuming.
In most jurisdictions, we generally self-insure against the risk of product
liability claims for vehicle exposure, meaning that any product liability
claims will likely have to be paid from company funds and not by insurance.

We will need to maintain public credibility and confidence in our long-term
business prospects in order to succeed.

In order to maintain and grow our business, we must maintain credibility and
confidence among customers, suppliers, analysts, investors, ratings agencies
and other parties in our long-term financial viability and business prospects.
Maintaining such confidence may be challenging due to our limited operating
history relative to established competitors; customer unfamiliarity with our
products; any delays we may experience in scaling manufacturing, delivery and
service operations to meet demand; competition and uncertainty regarding the
future of electric vehicles or our other products and services; our quarterly
production and sales performance compared with market expectations; and other
factors including those over which we have no control. In particular, Tesla's
products, business, results of operations, and statements and actions of Tesla
and its management are well-publicized by a range of third parties. Such
attention can include criticism, which may be exaggerated or unfounded, such
as speculation regarding the sufficiency or stability of our management team.
Any such negative perceptions, whether caused by us or not, may harm our
business and make it more difficult to raise additional funds if needed.

We may be unable to effectively grow, or manage the compliance, residual
value, financing and credit risks related to, our various financing programs.

We offer financing arrangements for our vehicles in North America, Europe and
Asia primarily ourselves and through various financial institutions. We also
currently offer vehicle financing arrangements directly through our local
subsidiaries in certain markets. Depending on the country, such arrangements
are available for specified models and may include operating leases directly
with us under which we typically receive only a very small portion of the
total vehicle purchase price at the time of lease, followed by a stream of
payments over the term of the lease. We have also offered various arrangements
for customers of our solar energy systems whereby they pay us a fixed payment
to lease or finance the purchase of such systems or purchase electricity
generated by them. If we do not successfully monitor and comply with
applicable national, state and/or local financial regulations and consumer
protection laws governing these transactions, we may become subject to
enforcement actions or penalties.

The profitability of any directly-leased vehicles returned to us at the end of
their leases depends on our ability to accurately project our vehicles'
residual values at the outset of the leases, and such values may fluctuate
prior to the end of their terms depending on various factors such as supply
and demand of our used vehicles, economic cycles and the pricing of new
vehicles. We have made in the past and may make in the future certain
adjustments to our prices from time to time in the ordinary course of
business, which may impact the residual values of our vehicles and reduce the
profitability of our vehicle leasing program. The funding and growth of this
program also rely on our ability to secure adequate financing and/or business
partners. If we are unable to adequately fund our leasing program through
internal funds, partners or other financing sources, and compelling
alternative financing programs are not available for our customers who may
expect or need such options, we may be unable to grow our vehicle deliveries.
Furthermore, if our vehicle leasing business grows substantially, our business
may suffer if we cannot effectively manage the resulting greater levels of
residual risk.

Similarly, we have provided resale value guarantees to vehicle customers and
partners for certain financing programs, under which such counterparties may
sell their vehicles back to us at certain points in time at pre-determined
amounts. However, actual resale values are subject to fluctuations over the
term of the financing arrangements, such as from the vehicle pricing changes
discussed above. If the actual resale values of any vehicles resold or
returned to us pursuant to these programs are materially lower than the pre-
determined amounts we have offered, our financial condition and operating
results may be harmed.

Finally, our vehicle and solar energy system financing programs and our energy
storage sales programs also expose us to customer credit risk. In the event of
a widespread economic downturn or other catastrophic event, our customers may
be unable or unwilling to satisfy their payment obligations to us on a timely
basis or at all. If a significant number of our customers default, we may
incur substantial credit losses and/or impairment charges with respect to the
underlying assets.

19

* * *

We must manage ongoing obligations under our agreement with the Research
Foundation for the State University of New York relating to our Gigafactory
New York.

We are party to an operating lease and a research and development agreement
through the State University of New York (the "SUNY Foundation"). These
agreements provide for the construction and use of our Gigafactory New York,
which we have primarily used for the development and production of our Solar
Roof and other solar products and components, energy storage components and
Supercharger components, and for other lessor-approved functions. Under this
agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as
well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in
Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital,
operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New
York during a period that was initially 10 years beginning April 30, 2018. As
of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to
investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo. While we
expect to have and grow significant operations at Gigafactory New York and the
surrounding Buffalo area, any failure by us in any year over the course of the
term of the agreement to meet all applicable future obligations may result in
our obligation to pay a "program payment" of $41 million to the SUNY
Foundation for such year, the termination of our lease at Gigafactory New York
which may require us to pay additional penalties, and/or the need to adjust
certain of our operations, in particular our production ramp of the Solar Roof
or other components. Any of the foregoing events may harm our business,
financial condition and operating results.

If we are unable to attract, hire and retain key employees and qualified
personnel, our ability to compete may be harmed.

The loss of the services of any of our key employees or any significant
portion of our workforce could disrupt our operations or delay the
development, introduction and ramp of our products and services. In
particular, we are highly dependent on the services of Elon Musk, Technoking
of Tesla and our Chief Executive Officer. None of our key employees is bound
by an employment agreement for any specific term and we may not be able to
successfully attract and retain senior leadership necessary to grow our
business. Our future success also depends upon our ability to attract, hire
and retain a large number of engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and
delivery, service, installation, technology and support personnel, especially
to support our planned high-volume product sales, market and geographical
expansion and technological innovations. If we are not successful in managing
these risks, our business, financial condition and operating results may be
harmed.

Employees may leave Tesla or choose other employers over Tesla due to various
factors, such as a very competitive labor market for talented individuals with
automotive or technology experience, or any negative publicity related to us.
In regions where we have or will have operations, particularly significant
engineering and manufacturing centers, there is strong competition for
individuals with skillsets needed for our business, including specialized
knowledge of electric vehicles, engineering and electrical and building
construction expertise. Moreover, we may be impacted by perceptions relating
to reductions in force that we have conducted in the past in order to optimize
our organizational structure and reduce costs and the departure of certain
senior personnel for various reasons. We also compete with both mature and
prosperous companies that have far greater financial resources than we do and
start-ups and emerging companies that promise short-term growth opportunities.

Finally, our compensation philosophy for all of our personnel reflects our
startup origins, with an emphasis on equity-based awards and benefits in order
to closely align their incentives with the long-term interests of our
stockholders. We periodically seek and obtain approval from our stockholders
for future increases to the number of awards available under our equity
incentive and employee stock purchase plans. If we are unable to obtain the
requisite stockholder approvals for such future increases, we may have to
expend additional cash to compensate our employees and our ability to retain
and hire qualified personnel may be harmed.

We are highly dependent on the services of Elon Musk, Technoking of Tesla and
our Chief Executive Officer.

We are highly dependent on the services of Elon Musk, Technoking of Tesla and
our Chief Executive Officer. Although Mr. Musk spends significant time with
Tesla and is highly active in our management, he does not devote his full time
and attention to Tesla. Mr. Musk also currently serves as Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Technical Officer of Space Exploration Technologies Corp., a
developer and manufacturer of space launch vehicles, Chief Executive Officer
of Twitter, Inc., a social media company, and is involved in other emerging
technology ventures.

20

* * *

Our information technology systems or data, or those of our service providers
or customers or users could be subject to cyber-attacks or other security
incidents, which could result in data breaches, intellectual property theft,
claims, litigation, regulatory investigations, significant liability,
reputational damage and other adverse consequences.

We continue to expand our information technology systems as our operations
grow, such as product data management, procurement, inventory management,
production planning and execution, sales, service and logistics, dealer
management, financial, tax and regulatory compliance systems. This includes
the implementation of new internally developed systems and the deployment of
such systems in the U.S. and abroad. While, we maintain information technology
measures designed to protect us against intellectual property theft, data
breaches, sabotage and other external or internal cyber-attacks or
misappropriation, our systems and those of our service providers are
potentially vulnerable to malware, ransomware, viruses, denial-of-service
attacks, phishing attacks, social engineering, computer hacking, unauthorized
access, exploitation of bugs, defects and vulnerabilities, breakdowns, damage,
interruptions, system malfunctions, power outages, terrorism, acts of
vandalism, security breaches, security incidents, inadvertent or intentional
actions by employees or other third parties, and other cyber-attacks.

To the extent any security incident results in unauthorized access or damage
to or acquisition, use, corruption, loss, destruction, alteration or
dissemination of our data, including intellectual property and personal
information, or our products or vehicles, or for it to be believed or reported
that any of these occurred, it could disrupt our business, harm our
reputation, compel us to comply with applicable data breach notification laws,
subject us to time consuming, distracting and expensive litigation, regulatory
investigation and oversight, mandatory corrective action, require us to verify
the correctness of database contents, or otherwise subject us to liability
under laws, regulations and contractual obligations, including those that
protect the privacy and security of personal information. This could result in
increased costs to us and result in significant legal and financial exposure
and/or reputational harm.

We also rely on service providers, and similar incidents relating to their
information technology systems could also have a material adverse effect on
our business. There have been and may continue to be significant supply chain
attacks. Our service providers, including our workforce management software
provider, have been subject to ransomware and other security incidents, and we
cannot guarantee that our or our service providers' systems have not been
breached or that they do not contain exploitable defects, bugs, or
vulnerabilities that could result in a security incident, or other disruption
to, our or our service providers' systems. Our ability to monitor our service
providers' security measures is limited, and, in any event, malicious third
parties may be able to circumvent those security measures.

Further, the implementation, maintenance, segregation and improvement of these
systems require significant management time, support and cost, and there are
inherent risks associated with developing, improving and expanding our core
systems as well as implementing new systems and updating current systems,
including disruptions to the related areas of business operation. These risks
may affect our ability to manage our data and inventory, procure parts or
supplies or manufacture, sell, deliver and service products, adequately
protect our intellectual property or achieve and maintain compliance with, or
realize available benefits under, tax laws and other applicable regulations.

Moreover, if we do not successfully implement, maintain or expand these
systems as planned, our operations may be disrupted, our ability to accurately
and/or timely report our financial results could be impaired and deficiencies
may arise in our internal control over financial reporting, which may impact
our ability to certify our financial results. Moreover, our proprietary
information, including intellectual property and personal information, could
be compromised or misappropriated and our reputation may be adversely
affected. If these systems or their functionality do not operate as we expect
them to, we may be required to expend significant resources to make
corrections or find alternative sources for performing these functions.

Any unauthorized control or manipulation of our products' systems could result
in loss of confidence in us and our products.

Our products contain complex information technology systems. For example, our
vehicles and energy storage products are designed with built-in data
connectivity to accept and install periodic remote updates from us to improve
or update their functionality. While we have implemented security measures
intended to prevent unauthorized access to our information technology
networks, our products and their systems, malicious entities have reportedly
attempted, and may attempt in the future, to gain unauthorized access to
modify, alter and use such networks, products and systems to gain control of,
or to change, our products' functionality, user interface and performance
characteristics or to gain access to data stored in or generated by our
products. We encourage reporting of potential vulnerabilities in the security
of our products through our security vulnerability reporting policy, and we
aim to remedy any reported and verified vulnerability. However, there can be
no assurance that any vulnerabilities will not be exploited before they can be
identified, or that our remediation efforts are or will be successful.

Any unauthorized access to or control of our products or their systems or any
loss of data could result in legal claims or government investigations. In
addition, regardless of their veracity, reports of unauthorized access to our
products, their systems or data, as well as other factors that may result in
the perception that our products, their systems or data are capable of being
hacked, may harm our brand, prospects and operating results. We have been the
subject of such reports in the past.

21

* * *

Our business may be adversely affected by any disruptions caused by union
activities.

It is not uncommon for employees of certain trades at companies such as ours
to belong to a union, which can result in higher employee costs and increased
risk of work stoppages. Moreover, regulations in some jurisdictions outside of
the U.S. mandate employee participation in industrial collective bargaining
agreements and work councils with certain consultation rights with respect to
the relevant companies' operations. Although we work diligently to provide the
best possible work environment for our employees, they may still decide to
join or seek recognition to form a labor union, or we may be required to
become a union signatory. From time to time, labor unions have engaged in
campaigns to organize certain of our operations, as part of which such unions
have filed unfair labor practice charges against us with the National Labor
Relations Board (the "NLRB"), and they may do so in the future. In September
2019, an administrative law judge issued a recommended decision for Tesla on
certain issues and against us on certain others. In March 2021, the NLRB
adopted a portion of the recommendation and overturned others. Tesla appealed
the decision to the United States Circuit Court for the Fifth Circuit, which
is currently pending. Any unfavorable ultimate outcome for Tesla may have a
negative impact on the perception of Tesla's treatment of our employees.
Furthermore, we are directly or indirectly dependent upon companies with
unionized work forces, such as suppliers and trucking and freight companies.
Any work stoppages or strikes organized by such unions could delay the
manufacture and sale of our products and may harm our business and operating
results.

We may choose to or be compelled to undertake product recalls or take other
similar actions.

As a manufacturing company, we must manage the risk of product recalls with
respect to our products. Recalls for our vehicles have resulted from various
hardware and software-related safety defect or non-compliance determinations.
In addition to recalls initiated by us for various causes, testing of or
investigations into our products by government regulators or industry groups
may compel us to initiate product recalls or may result in negative public
perceptions about the safety of our products, even if we disagree with the
defect determination or have data that contradicts it. In the future, we may
voluntarily or involuntarily initiate recalls if any of our products are
determined by us or a regulator to contain a safety defect or be noncompliant
with applicable laws and regulations, such as U.S. Federal Motor Vehicle
Safety Standards. Such recalls, whether voluntary or involuntary or caused by
systems or components engineered or manufactured by us or our suppliers, could
result in significant expense, supply chain complications and service burdens,
and may harm our brand, business, prospects, financial condition and operating
results.

Our current and future warranty reserves may be insufficient to cover future
warranty claims.

We provide a manufacturer's warranty on all new and used Tesla vehicles we
sell. We also provide certain warranties with respect to the energy generation
and storage systems we sell, including on their installation and maintenance.
For components not manufactured by us, we generally pass through to our
customers the applicable manufacturers' warranties, but may retain some
warranty responsibilities for some or all of the life of such components. As
part of our energy generation and storage system contracts, we may provide the
customer with performance guarantees that guarantee that the underlying system
will meet or exceed the minimum energy generation or other energy performance
requirements specified in the contract. Under these performance guarantees, we
generally bear the risk of electricity production or other performance
shortfalls, including in some cases shortfalls caused by failures in
components from third party manufacturers. These risks are exacerbated in the
event such manufacturers cease operations or fail to honor their warranties.

If our warranty reserves are inadequate to cover future warranty claims on our
products, our financial condition and operating results may be harmed.
Warranty reserves include our management's best estimates of the projected
costs to repair or to replace items under warranty, which are based on actual
claims incurred to date and an estimate of the nature, frequency and costs of
future claims. Such estimates are inherently uncertain and changes to our
historical or projected experience, especially with respect to products that
we have introduced relatively recently and/or that we expect to produce at
significantly greater volumes than our past products, may cause material
changes to our warranty reserves in the future.

Our insurance coverage strategy may not be adequate to protect us from all
business risks.

We may be subject, in the ordinary course of business, to losses resulting
from products liability, accidents, acts of God and other claims against us,
for which we may have no insurance coverage. As a general matter, we do not
maintain as much insurance coverage as many other companies do, and in some
cases, we do not maintain any at all. Additionally, the policies that we do
have may include significant deductibles or self-insured retentions, policy
limitations and exclusions, and we cannot be certain that our insurance
coverage will be sufficient to cover all future losses or claims against us. A
loss that is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits may require us to pay
substantial amounts, which may harm our financial condition and operating
results.

22

* * *

Our debt agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability
to operate our business.

The terms of certain of our debt facilities contain, and any of our other
future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that may limit our
ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our and/or our
subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur additional debt or create
liens. In addition, under certain circumstances we are required to comply with
a fixed charge coverage ratio. As a result of these covenants, our ability to
respond to changes in business and economic conditions and engage in
beneficial transactions, including to obtain additional financing as needed,
may be restricted. Furthermore, our failure to comply with our debt covenants
could result in a default under our debt agreements, which could permit the
holders to accelerate our obligation to repay the debt. If any of our debt is
accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay it.

Additional funds may not be available to us when we need or want them.

Our business and our future plans for expansion are capital-intensive, and the
specific timing of cash inflows and outflows may fluctuate substantially from
period to period. We may need or want to raise additional funds through the
issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities or through obtaining
credit from financial institutions to fund, together with our principal
sources of liquidity, the costs of developing and manufacturing our current or
future products, to pay any significant unplanned or accelerated expenses or
for new significant strategic investments, or to refinance our significant
consolidated indebtedness, even if not required to do so by the terms of such
indebtedness. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to
us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we cannot raise additional
funds when we need them, our financial condition, results of operations,
business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.

We may be negatively impacted by any early obsolescence of our manufacturing
equipment.

We depreciate the cost of our manufacturing equipment over their expected
useful lives. However, product cycles or manufacturing technology may change
periodically, and we may decide to update our products or manufacturing
processes more quickly than expected. Moreover, improvements in engineering
and manufacturing expertise and efficiency may result in our ability to
manufacture our products using less of our currently installed equipment.
Alternatively, as we ramp and mature the production of our products to higher
levels, we may discontinue the use of already installed equipment in favor of
different or additional equipment. The useful life of any equipment that would
be retired early as a result would be shortened, causing the depreciation on
such equipment to be accelerated, and our results of operations may be harmed.

There is no guarantee that we will have sufficient cash flow from our business
to pay our indebtedness or that we will not incur additional indebtedness.

As of December 31, 2022, we and our subsidiaries had outstanding $2.06 billion
in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness (see Note 11, Debt, to the
consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K). Our consolidated indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to
any generally adverse economic and industry conditions. We and our
subsidiaries may, subject to the limitations in the terms of our existing and
future indebtedness, incur additional debt, secure existing or future debt or
recapitalize our debt.

Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal and interest on our
indebtedness when due, to make payments upon conversion or repurchase demands
with respect to our convertible senior notes or to refinance our indebtedness
as we may need or desire, depends on our future performance, which is subject
to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our
business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future
sufficient to satisfy our obligations under our existing indebtedness and any
future indebtedness we may incur, and to make necessary capital expenditures.
If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one
or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying investments or capital
expenditures, selling assets, refinancing or obtaining additional equity
capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to
refinance existing or future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets
and our financial condition at such time. In addition, our ability to make
payments may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements
governing our future indebtedness. We may not be able to engage in these
activities on desirable terms or at all, which may result in a default on our
existing or future indebtedness and harm our financial condition and operating
results.

23

* * *

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

We transact business globally in multiple currencies and have foreign currency
risks related to our revenue, costs of revenue, operating expenses and
localized subsidiary debt denominated in currencies other than the U.S.
dollar, currently primarily the Chinese yuan, euro, pound sterling and
Norwegian krone. To the extent we have significant revenues denominated in
such foreign currencies, any strengthening of the U.S. dollar would tend to
reduce our revenues as measured in U.S. dollars, as we have historically
experienced, and are currently experiencing. In addition, a portion of our
costs and expenses have been, and we anticipate will continue to be,
denominated in foreign currencies, including the Chinese yuan and Japanese
yen. If we do not have fully offsetting revenues in these currencies and if
the value of the U.S. dollar depreciates significantly against these
currencies, our costs as measured in U.S. dollars as a percent of our revenues
will correspondingly increase and our margins will suffer. Moreover, while we
undertake limited hedging activities intended to offset the impact of currency
translation exposure, it is impossible to predict or eliminate such impact. As
a result, our operating results may be harmed.

We may need to defend ourselves against intellectual property infringement
claims, which may be time-consuming and expensive.

Our competitors or other third parties may hold or obtain patents, copyrights,
trademarks or other proprietary rights that could prevent, limit or interfere
with our ability to make, use, develop, sell or market our products and
services, which could make it more difficult for us to operate our business.
From time to time, the holders of such intellectual property rights may assert
their rights and urge us to take licenses and/or may bring suits alleging
infringement or misappropriation of such rights, which could result in
substantial costs, negative publicity and management attention, regardless of
merit. While we endeavor to obtain and protect the intellectual property
rights that we expect will allow us to retain or advance our strategic
initiatives, there can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately
identify and protect the portions of intellectual property that are strategic
to our business, or mitigate the risk of potential suits or other legal
demands by our competitors. Accordingly, we may consider the entering into
licensing agreements with respect to such rights, although no assurance can be
given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that
litigation will not occur, and such licenses and associated litigation could
significantly increase our operating expenses. In addition, if we are
determined to have or believe there is a high likelihood that we have
infringed upon a third party's intellectual property rights, we may be
required to cease making, selling or incorporating certain components or
intellectual property into the goods and services we offer, to pay substantial
damages and/or license royalties, to redesign our products and services and/or
to establish and maintain alternative branding for our products and services.
In the event that we are required to take one or more such actions, our brand,
business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed.

Increased scrutiny and changing expectations from stakeholders with respect to
the Company's ESG practices may result in additional costs or risks.

Companies across many industries are facing increasing scrutiny related to
their environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. Investor advocacy
groups, certain institutional investors, investment funds and other
influential investors are also increasingly focused on ESG practices and in
recent years have placed increasing importance on the non-financial impacts of
their investments. While our mission is to accelerate the world's transition
to sustainable energy, if our ESG practices do not meet investor or other
industry stakeholder expectations, which continue to evolve, we may incur
additional costs and our brand, ability to attract and retain qualified
employees and business may be harmed.

Our operations could be adversely affected by events outside of our control,
such as natural disasters, wars or health epidemics.

We may be impacted by natural disasters, wars, health epidemics, weather
conditions, the long-term effects of climate change, power outages or other
events outside of our control. For example, our Fremont Factory and
Gigafactory Nevada are located in seismically active regions in Northern
California and Nevada, and our Gigafactory Shanghai is located in a flood-
prone area. Moreover, the area in which our Gigafactory Texas is located
experienced severe winter storms in the first quarter of 2021 that had a
widespread impact on utilities and transportation. If major disasters such as
earthquakes, floods or other climate-related events occur, or our information
system or communication breaks down or operates improperly, our headquarters
and production facilities may be seriously damaged, or we may have to stop or
delay production and shipment of our products. In addition, the global
COVID-19 pandemic has impacted economic markets, manufacturing operations,
supply chains, employment and consumer behavior in nearly every geographic
region and industry across the world, and we have been, and may in the future
be, adversely affected as a result. Also, the broader consequences in the
current conflict between Russia and Ukraine, which may include further
embargoes, regional instability and geopolitical shifts; airspace bans
relating to certain routes, or strategic decisions to alter certain routes;
and potential retaliatory action by the Russian government against companies,
and the extent of the conflict on our business and operating results cannot be
predicted. We may incur expenses or delays relating to such events outside of
our control, which could have a material adverse impact on our business,
operating results and financial condition.

24

* * *

Risks Related to Government Laws and Regulations

Demand for our products and services may be impacted by the status of
government and economic incentives supporting the development and adoption of
such products.

Government and economic incentives that support the development and adoption
of electric vehicles in the U.S. and abroad, including certain tax exemptions,
tax credits and rebates, may be reduced, eliminated or exhausted from time to
time. For example, previously available incentives favoring electric vehicles
in areas including Ontario, Canada, Netherlands, Italy, Hong Kong and
California have expired or were cancelled or temporarily unavailable, and in
some cases were not eventually replaced or reinstituted, which may have
negatively impacted sales. Certain government and economic incentives, similar
to the IRA, may also be implemented that provide benefits to manufacturers who
assemble domestically, have local suppliers or have other characteristics that
may not apply to Tesla. Such developments could negatively impact demand for
our vehicles, and we and our customers may have to adjust to them, including
through pricing modifications.

In addition, certain governmental rebates, tax credits and other financial
incentives that are currently available with respect to our solar and energy
storage product businesses allow us to lower our costs and encourage customers
to buy our products and investors to invest in our solar financing funds.
However, these incentives may expire when the allocated funding is exhausted,
reduced or terminated as renewable energy adoption rates increase, sometimes
without warning. Likewise, in jurisdictions where net metering is currently
available, our customers receive bill credits from utilities for energy that
their solar energy systems generate and export to the grid in excess of the
electric load they use. The benefit available under net metering has been or
has been proposed to be reduced, altered or eliminated in several
jurisdictions, and has also been contested and may continue to be contested
before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Any reductions or
terminations of such incentives may harm our business, prospects, financial
condition and operating results by making our products less competitive for
customers, increasing our cost of capital and adversely impacting our ability
to attract investment partners and to form new financing funds for our solar
and energy storage assets.

Finally, we and our fund investors claim these U.S. federal tax credits and
certain state incentives in amounts based on independently appraised fair
market values of our solar and energy storage systems. Some governmental
authorities have audited such values and in certain cases have determined that
these values should be lower, and they may do so again in the future. Such
determinations may result in adverse tax consequences and/or our obligation to
make indemnification or other payments to our funds or fund investors.

We are subject to evolving laws and regulations that could impose substantial
costs, legal prohibitions or unfavorable changes upon our operations or
products.

As we grow our manufacturing operations in additional regions, we are or will
be subject to complex environmental, manufacturing, health and safety laws and
regulations at numerous jurisdictional levels in the U.S., China, Germany and
other locations abroad, including laws relating to the use, handling, storage,
recycling, disposal and/or human exposure to hazardous materials, product
material inputs and post-consumer products and with respect to constructing,
expanding and maintaining our facilities. New, or changes in, environmental
and climate change laws, regulations or rules could also lead to increased
costs of compliance, including remediations of any discovered issues, and
changes to our operations, which may be significant, and any failures to
comply could result in significant expenses, delays or fines. In addition, as
we have increased our employee headcount and operations, we are and may
continue to be subject to increased scrutiny, including litigation and
government investigations relating to allegations such as discrimination and
workplace misconduct, that we will need to defend against. If we are unable to
successfully defend ourselves in such litigation or government investigations,
it may harm our brand, ability to attract and retain qualified employees,
business and financial condition. We are also subject to laws and regulations
applicable to the supply, manufacture, import, sale, service and performance
of our products both domestically and abroad. For example, in countries
outside of the U.S., we are required to meet standards relating to vehicle
safety, fuel economy and emissions that are often materially different from
equivalent requirements in the U.S., thus resulting in additional investment
into the vehicles and systems to ensure regulatory compliance in all
countries. This process may include official review and certification of our
vehicles by foreign regulatory agencies prior to market entry, as well as
compliance with foreign reporting and recall management systems requirements.

In particular, we offer in our vehicles in certain markets Autopilot and FSD
Capability features that today assist drivers with certain tedious and
potentially dangerous aspects of road travel, but which currently require
drivers to remain fully engaged in the driving operation. We are continuing to
develop our Autopilot and FSD Capability technology. There are a variety of
international, federal and state regulations that may apply to, and may
adversely affect, the design and performance, sale, registration and operation
of Autopilot and FSD Capability, and future capability, including full self-
driving vehicles that may not be operated by a human driver. This includes
many existing vehicle standards that were not originally intended to apply to
vehicles that may not be operated by a human driver. Such regulations continue
to rapidly change, which increases the likelihood of a patchwork of complex or
conflicting regulations, or may delay, restrict or prohibit the availability
of certain functionalities and vehicle designs, which could adversely affect
our business.

Finally, as a manufacturer, installer and service provider with respect to
solar generation and energy storage systems, a supplier of electricity
generated and stored by certain of the solar energy and energy storage systems
we install for customers, and a provider of

25

* * *

grid services through virtual power plant models, we are impacted by federal,
state and local regulations and policies concerning the import or export of
components, electricity pricing, the interconnection of electricity generation
and storage equipment with the electrical grid and the sale of electricity
generated by third party-owned systems. If regulations and policies are
introduced that adversely impact the import or export of components, or the
interconnection, maintenance or use of our solar and energy storage systems,
they could deter potential customers from purchasing our solar and energy
storage products and services, threaten the economics of our existing
contracts and cause us to cease solar and energy storage system sales and
services in the relevant jurisdictions, which may harm our business, financial
condition and operating results.

Any failure by us to comply with a variety of U.S. and international privacy
and consumer protection laws may harm us.

Any failure by us or our vendor or other business partners to comply with our
public privacy notice or with federal, state or international privacy, data
protection or security laws or regulations relating to the processing,
collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable
information could result in regulatory or litigation-related actions against
us, legal liability, fines, damages, ongoing audit requirements and other
significant costs. Substantial expenses and operational changes may be
required in connection with maintaining compliance with such laws, and even an
unsuccessful challenge by customers or regulatory authorities of our
activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly
response from and defense by us. In addition, certain emerging privacy laws
are still subject to a high degree of uncertainty as to their interpretation,
application and impact, and may require extensive system and operational
changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, adversely
impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer, or
result in adverse publicity and harm our reputation. For example, the General
Data Protection Regulation applies to the processing of personal information
collected from individuals located in the European Union, and has created new
compliance obligations and significantly increased fines for noncompliance.
Similarly, the California Consumer Privacy Act imposes certain legal
obligations on our use and processing of personal information related to
California residents. Finally, new privacy and cybersecurity laws have come
into effect in China. In addition to the risks related to general privacy
regulation, we may also be subject to specific vehicle manufacturer
obligations relating to cybersecurity, data privacy and data localization
requirements which place additional risks to our international operations.
Risks and penalties could include ongoing audit requirements, data protection
authority investigations, legal proceedings by international governmental
entities or others resulting in mandated disclosure of sensitive data or other
commercially unfavorable terms. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect the
security and integrity of our customers' personal information, we may be
required to expend significant resources to comply with data breach
requirements if, for example, third parties improperly obtain and use the
personal information of our customers or we otherwise experience a data loss
with respect to customers' personal information. A major breach of our network
security and systems may result in fines, penalties and damages and harm our
brand, prospects and operating results.

We could be subject to liability, penalties and other restrictive sanctions
and adverse consequences arising out of certain governmental investigations
and proceedings.

We are cooperating with certain government investigations as discussed in Note
15, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements
included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. To our knowledge, no
government agency in any such ongoing investigation has concluded that any
wrongdoing occurred. However, we cannot predict the outcome or impact of any
such ongoing matters, and there exists the possibility that we could be
subject to liability, penalties and other restrictive sanctions and adverse
consequences if the SEC, the U.S. Department of Justice or any other
government agency were to pursue legal action in the future. Moreover, we
expect to incur costs in responding to related requests for information and
subpoenas, and if instituted, in defending against any governmental
proceedings.

For example, on October 16, 2018, the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York entered a final judgment approving the terms of a
settlement filed with the Court on September 29, 2018, in connection with the
actions taken by the SEC relating to Mr. Musk's statement on August 7, 2018
that he was considering taking Tesla private. Pursuant to the settlement, we,
among other things, paid a civil penalty of $20 million, appointed an
independent director as the chair of our board of directors, appointed two
additional independent directors to our board of directors and made further
enhancements to our disclosure controls and other corporate governance-related
matters. On April 26, 2019, this settlement was amended to clarify certain of
the previously-agreed disclosure procedures, which was subsequently approved
by the Court. All other terms of the prior settlement were reaffirmed without
modification. Although we intend to continue to comply with the terms and
requirements of the settlement, if there is a lack of compliance or an alleged
lack of compliance, additional enforcement actions or other legal proceedings
may be instituted against us.

26

* * *

We may face regulatory challenges to or limitations on our ability to sell
vehicles directly.

While we intend to continue to leverage our most effective sales strategies,
including sales through our website, we may not be able to sell our vehicles
through our own stores in certain states in the U.S. with laws that may be
interpreted to impose limitations on this direct-to-consumer sales model. It
has also been asserted that the laws in some states limit our ability to
obtain dealer licenses from state motor vehicle regulators, and such
assertions persist. In certain locations, decisions by regulators permitting
us to sell vehicles have been, and may be, challenged by dealer associations
and others as to whether such decisions comply with applicable state motor
vehicle industry laws. We have prevailed in many of these lawsuits and such
results have reinforced our continuing belief that state franchise laws were
not intended to apply to a manufacturer that does not have franchise dealers
anywhere in the world. In some states, there have also been regulatory and
legislative efforts by dealer associations to propose laws that, if enacted,
would prevent us from obtaining dealer licenses in their states given our
current sales model. A few states have passed legislation that clarifies our
ability to operate, but at the same time limits the number of dealer licenses
we can obtain or stores that we can operate. The application of state laws
applicable to our operations continues to be difficult to predict.

Internationally, there may be laws in jurisdictions we have not yet entered or
laws we are unaware of in jurisdictions we have entered that may restrict our
sales or other business practices. Even for those jurisdictions we have
analyzed, the laws in this area can be complex, difficult to interpret and may
change over time. Continued regulatory limitations and other obstacles
interfering with our ability to sell vehicles directly to consumers may harm
our financial condition and operating results.

Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock

The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile.

The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could
continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors,
some of which are beyond our control. Our common stock has experienced over
the last 52 weeks an intra-day trading high of $384.29 per share and a low of
$101.81 per share, as adjusted to give effect to the three-for-one stock split
in the form of a stock dividend in August 2022 (the "2022 Stock Split"). The
stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in
particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have
often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those
companies. In particular, a large proportion of our common stock has been
historically and may in the future be traded by short sellers which may put
pressure on the supply and demand for our common stock, further influencing
volatility in its market price. Public perception of our company or management
and other factors outside of our control may additionally impact the stock
price of companies like us that garner a disproportionate degree of public
attention, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the
past, following periods of volatility in the overall market or the market
price of our shares, securities class action litigation has been filed against
us. While we defend such actions vigorously, any judgment against us or any
future stockholder litigation could result in substantial costs and a
diversion of our management's attention and resources.

Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period due to
fluctuations in our operating costs and other factors.

We expect our period-to-period financial results to vary based on our
operating costs, which we anticipate will fluctuate as the pace at which we
continue to design, develop and manufacture new products and increase
production capacity by expanding our current manufacturing facilities and
adding future facilities, may not be consistent or linear between periods.
Additionally, our revenues from period to period may fluctuate as we introduce
existing products to new markets for the first time and as we develop and
introduce new products. As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-
to-quarter comparisons of our financial results, especially in the short term,
are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied
upon as indicators of future performance. Moreover, our financial results may
not meet expectations of equity research analysts, ratings agencies or
investors, who may be focused only on short-term quarterly financial results.
If any of this occurs, the trading price of our stock could fall
substantially, either suddenly or over time.

We may fail to meet our publicly announced guidance or other expectations
about our business, which could cause our stock price to decline.

We may provide from time to time guidance regarding our expected financial and
business performance. Correctly identifying key factors affecting business
conditions and predicting future events is inherently an uncertain process,
and our guidance may not ultimately be accurate and has in the past been
inaccurate in certain respects, such as the timing of new product
manufacturing ramps. Our guidance is based on certain assumptions such as
those relating to anticipated production and sales volumes (which generally
are not linear throughout a given period), average sales prices, supplier and
commodity costs and planned cost reductions. If our guidance varies from
actual results, such as due to our assumptions not being met or the impact on
our financial performance that could occur as a result of various risks and
uncertainties, the market value of our common stock could decline
significantly.

27

* * *

If Elon Musk were forced to sell shares of our common stock, either that he
has pledged to secure certain personal loan obligations, or in satisfaction of
other obligations, such sales could cause our stock price to decline.

Certain banking institutions have made extensions of credit to Elon Musk, our
Chief Executive Officer, a portion of which was used to purchase shares of
common stock in certain of our public offerings and private placements at the
same prices offered to third-party participants in such offerings and
placements. We are not a party to these loans, which are partially secured by
pledges of a portion of the Tesla common stock currently owned by Mr. Musk. If
the price of our common stock were to decline substantially, Mr. Musk may be
forced by one or more of the banking institutions to sell shares of Tesla
common stock to satisfy his loan obligations if he could not do so through
other means. Any such sales could cause the price of our common stock to
decline further. Further, Mr. Musk from time to time may commit to investing
in significant business or other ventures, and as a result, be required to
sell shares of our common stock in satisfaction of such commitments.

Anti-takeover provisions contained in our governing documents, applicable laws
and our convertible senior notes could impair a takeover attempt.

Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws afford certain rights and powers
to our board of directors that may facilitate the delay or prevention of an
acquisition that it deems undesirable. We are also subject to Section 203 of
the Delaware General Corporation Law and other provisions of Delaware law that
limit the ability of stockholders in certain situations to effect certain
business combinations. In addition, the terms of our convertible senior notes
may require us to repurchase such notes in the event of a fundamental change,
including a takeover of our company. Any of the foregoing provisions and terms
that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit
the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of
our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are
willing to pay for our common stock.

28

* * *

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We are headquartered in Austin, Texas. Our principal facilities include a
large number of properties in North America, Europe and Asia utilized for
manufacturing and assembly, warehousing, engineering, retail and service
locations, Supercharger sites and administrative and sales offices. Our
facilities are used to support both of our reporting segments, and are
suitable and adequate for the conduct of our business. We primarily lease such
facilities with the exception of some manufacturing facilities. The following
table sets forth the location of our primary owned and leased manufacturing
facilities.

|  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
Primary Manufacturing Facilities

|

|

Location

|

|

Owned or Leased  
  
Gigafactory Texas

|

|

Austin, Texas

|

|

Owned  
  
Fremont Factory

|

|

Fremont, California

|

|

Owned  
  
Gigafactory Nevada

|

|

Sparks, Nevada

|

|

Owned  
  
Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg

|

|

Grunheide, Germany

|

|

Owned  
  
Gigafactory Shanghai

|

|

Shanghai, China

|

|

*  
  
Gigafactory New York

|

|

Buffalo, New York

|

|

Leased  
  
Megafactory

|

|

Lathrop, California

|

|

Leased  
  
* We own the building and the land use rights with an initial term of 50 years. The land use rights are treated as operating lease right-of-use assets.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see Note
15, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements
included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In addition, each of the matters below is being disclosed pursuant to Item 103
of Regulation S-K because it relates to environmental regulations and
aggregate civil penalties that we currently believe could potentially exceed
$1 million. We believe that any proceeding that is material to our business or
financial condition is likely to have potential penalties far in excess of
such amount.

The German Umweltbundesamt issued our subsidiary in Germany a notice and fine
in the amount of 12 million euro alleging its non-compliance under applicable
laws relating to market participation notifications and take-back obligations
with respect to end-of-life battery products required thereunder. In response
to Tesla's objection, the German Umweltbundesamt issued Tesla a revised fine
notice dated April 29, 2021 in which it reduced the original fine amount to
1.45 million euro. This is primarily relating to administrative requirements,
but Tesla has continued to take back battery packs, and filed a new objection
in June 2021. A hearing took place on November 24, 2022, and the parties
reached a settlement which resulted in a further reduction of the fine to
600,000 euro. Both parties have waived their right to appeal.

District attorneys in certain California counties are conducting an
investigation into Tesla's waste segregation practices pursuant to Cal. Health
& Saf. Code section 25100 et seq. and Cal. Civil Code § 1798.80. Tesla has
implemented various remedial measures, including conducting training and
audits, and enhancements to its site waste management programs. While the
outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time, it is not currently
expected to have a material adverse impact on our business.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

29

* * *

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Market Information

Our common stock has traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the
symbol "TSLA" since it began trading on June 29, 2010. Our initial public
offering was priced at approximately $1.13 per share on June 28, 2010 as
adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock Split and the five-for-one stock
split effected in the form of a stock dividend in August 2020 (the "2020 Stock
Split").

Holders

As of January 25, 2023, there were 8,686 holders of record of our common
stock. A substantially greater number of holders of our common stock are
"street name" or beneficial holders, whose shares are held by banks, brokers
and other financial institutions.

Dividend Policy

We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We
currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable
future. Any future determination to declare cash dividends will be made at the
discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws, and will
depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital
requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of
directors may deem relevant.

Stock Performance Graph

This performance graph shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or
incorporated by reference into any filing of Tesla, Inc. under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as
shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.

The following graph shows a comparison, from January 1, 2018 through December
31, 2022, of the cumulative total return on our common stock, The NASDAQ
Composite Index and a group of all public companies sharing the same SIC code
as us, which is SIC code 3711, "Motor Vehicles and Passenger Car Bodies"
(Motor Vehicles and Passenger Car Bodies Public Company Group). Such returns
are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future
performance. Data for The NASDAQ Composite Index and the Motor Vehicles and
Passenger Car Bodies Public Company Group assumes an investment of $100 on
January 1, 2018 and reinvestment of dividends. We have never declared or paid
cash dividends on our common stock nor do we anticipate paying any such cash
dividends in the foreseeable future.  
  
---  
  
![img97702838_0.jpg](img97702838_0.jpg)  
  
30

* * *

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

None

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

None.

ITEM 6. [RESERVED]

31

* * *

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For further discussion of our products and
services, technology and competitive strengths, refer to Item 1- Business. For
discussion related to changes in financial condition and the results of
operations for fiscal year 2021-related items, refer to Part II, Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2021, which was
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2022.

Overview and 2022 Highlights

Our mission is to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy. We
design, develop, manufacture, lease and sell high-performance fully electric
vehicles, solar energy generation systems and energy storage products. We also
offer maintenance, installation, operation, financial and other services
related to our products. Additionally, we are increasingly focused on products
and services based on artificial intelligence, robotics and automation.

In 2022, we produced 1,369,611 consumer vehicles and delivered 1,313,851
consumer vehicles, despite ongoing supply chain and logistics challenges and
factory shutdowns. We are currently focused on increasing vehicle production,
capacity and delivery capabilities, improving and developing battery
technologies, improving our FSD capabilities, increasing the affordability and
efficiency of our vehicles, bringing new products to market and expanding our
global infrastructure.

In 2022, we deployed 6.5 GWh of energy storage products and 348 megawatts of
solar energy systems. We are currently focused on ramping production of energy
storage products, improving our Solar Roof installation capability and
efficiency, and increasing market share of retrofit and new build solar energy
systems.

In 2022, we recognized total revenues of $81.46 billion, respectively,
representing an increase of $27.64 billion, compared to the prior year. We
continue to ramp production, build new manufacturing capacity and expand our
operations to enable increased deliveries and deployments of our products and
further revenue growth.

In 2022, our net income attributable to common stockholders was $12.56
billion, representing a favorable change of $7.04 billion, compared to the
prior year. We continue to focus on improving our profitability through
production and operational efficiencies.

We ended 2022 with $22.19 billion in cash and cash equivalents and
investments, representing an increase of $4.48 billion from the end of 2021.
Our cash flows provided by operating activities during 2022 and 2021 were
$14.72 billion and $11.50 billion, respectively, representing an increase of
$3.23 billion. Capital expenditures amounted to $7.16 billion during 2022,
compared to $6.48 billion during 2021. Sustained growth has allowed our
business to generally fund itself, and we will continue investing in a number
of capital-intensive projects in upcoming periods.

Management Opportunities, Challenges and Uncertainties and 2023 Outlook

Automotive--Production

The following is a summary of the status of production of each of our
announced vehicle models in production and under development, as of the date
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

|  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
Production Location

|

|

Vehicle Model(s)

|

|

Production Status  
  
Fremont Factory

|

|

Model S / Model X

|

|

Active  
  
|

|

Model 3 / Model Y

|

|

Active  
  
Gigafactory Shanghai

|

|

Model 3 / Model Y

|

|

Active  
  
Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg

|

|

Model Y

|

|

Active  
  
Gigafactory Texas

|

|

Model Y

|

|

Active  
  
|

|

Cybertruck

|

|

Tooling  
  
Gigafactory Nevada

|

|

Tesla Semi

|

|

Pilot production  
  
TBD

|

|

Tesla Roadster

|

|

In development  
  
TBD

|

|

Robotaxi & Others

|

|

In development  
  
32

* * *

We are focused on growing our manufacturing capacity, which includes ramping
all of our production vehicles to their installed production capacities as
well as increasing production rate, efficiency and capacity at our current
factories. The next phase of production growth will depend on the ramp at
Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg and Gigafactory Texas, as well as our ability
to add to our available sources of battery cell supply by manufacturing our
own cells that we are developing to have high-volume output, lower capital and
production costs and longer range. Our goals are to improve vehicle
performance, decrease production costs and increase affordability.

However, these plans are subject to uncertainties inherent in establishing and
ramping manufacturing operations, which may be exacerbated by the new product
and manufacturing technologies we are introducing, the number of concurrent
international projects, any industry-wide component constraints, labor
shortages and any future impact from events outside of our control such as the
COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, we have set ambitious technological targets with
our plans for battery cells as well as for iterative manufacturing and design
improvements for our vehicles with each new factory.

Automotive--Demand and Sales

Our cost reduction efforts, cost innovation strategies, and additional
localized procurement and manufacturing are key to our vehicles'
affordability, and for example, have allowed us to competitively price our
vehicles in China. We will also continue to generate demand and brand
awareness by improving our vehicles' performance and functionality, including
through products based on artificial intelligence such as Autopilot and FSD,
and other software features, and delivering new vehicles, such as the Tesla
Semi in December 2022. Moreover, we expect to continue to benefit from ongoing
electrification of the automotive sector and increasing environmental
awareness.

However, we operate in a cyclical industry that is sensitive to political and
regulatory uncertainty, including with respect to trade and the environment,
all of which can be compounded by inflationary pressures, rising energy
prices, increases in interest rates and any future global impact from the
COVID-19 pandemic. For example, in the earlier part of 2022, the automotive
industry in general experienced part shortages and supplier disruptions which
impacted production leading to a general increase in vehicle pricing. As the
year progressed, inflationary pressures increased across the markets in which
we operate. In an effort to curb this trend, central banks in developed
countries raised interest rates rapidly and substantially, impacting the
affordability of vehicle lease and finance arrangements. Further, sales of
vehicles in the automotive industry also tend to be cyclical in many markets,
which may expose us to increased volatility as we expand and adjust our
operations. Moreover, as additional competitors enter the marketplace and help
bring the world closer to sustainable transportation, we will have to adjust
and continue to execute well to maintain our momentum. These macroeconomic and
industry trends have had, and will likely continue to have, an impact on the
pricing of, and order rate for our vehicles, and we will continue to adjust
accordingly to such developments.

Automotive--Deliveries and Customer Infrastructure

As our production increases, we must work constantly to similarly increase
vehicle delivery capability so that it does not become a bottleneck on our
total deliveries. Beginning the second half of 2022, due to continuing
challenges caused by vehicle transportation capacity during peak delivery
periods, we began transitioning to a more even regional mix of vehicle builds
each week, which led to an increase in cars in transit at the end of the year.
Increasing the exports of vehicles manufactured at Gigafactory Shanghai has
also been effective in mitigating the strain on our deliveries in markets
outside of the United States, and we expect to benefit further from situating
additional factories closer to local markets, including the production launch
at Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg and Gigafactory Austin. As we expand our
manufacturing operations globally, we will also have to continue to increase
and staff our delivery, servicing and charging infrastructure accordingly,
maintain our vehicle reliability and optimize our Supercharger locations to
ensure cost effectiveness and customer satisfaction. In particular, we remain
focused on increasing the capability and efficiency of our servicing
operations.

Energy Generation and Storage Demand, Production and Deployment

The long-term success of this business is dependent upon increasing margins
through greater volumes. We continue to increase the production of our energy
storage products to meet high levels of demand. For Megapack, energy storage
deployments can vary meaningfully quarter to quarter depending on the timing
of specific project milestones. For Powerwall, better availability and growing
grid stability concerns drive higher customer interest. We remain committed to
growing our retrofit solar energy business by offering a low-cost and
simplified online ordering experience. In addition, we continue to seek to
improve our installation capabilities and price efficiencies for Solar Roof.
As these product lines grow, we will have to maintain adequate battery cell
supply for our energy storage products and hire additional personnel,
particularly skilled electricians, to support the ramp of Solar Roof.

33

* * *

Cash Flow and Capital Expenditure Trends

Our capital expenditures are typically difficult to project beyond the short-
term given the number and breadth of our core projects at any given time, and
may further be impacted by uncertainties in future global market conditions.
We are simultaneously ramping new products, ramping manufacturing facilities
on three continents and piloting the development and manufacture of new
battery cell technologies, and the pace of our capital spend may vary
depending on overall priority among projects, the pace at which we meet
milestones, production adjustments to and among our various products,
increased capital efficiencies and the addition of new projects. Owing and
subject to the foregoing as well as the pipeline of announced projects under
development, all other continuing infrastructure growth and varying levels of
inflation, we currently expect our capital expenditures to be between $6.00 to
$8.00 billion in 2023 and between $7.00 to $9.00 billion in each of the
following two fiscal years.

Our business has recently been consistently generating cash flow from
operations in excess of our level of capital spend, and with better working
capital management resulting in shorter days sales outstanding than days
payable outstanding, our sales growth is also facilitating positive cash
generation. We have and will continue to utilize such cash flows, among other
things, to do more vertical integration, expand our product roadmap and
provide financing options to our customers. On the other hand, we are likely
to see heightened levels of capital expenditures during certain periods
depending on the specific pace of our capital-intensive projects and rising
material prices and increasing supply chain and labor expenses resulting from
changes in global trade conditions and labor availability associated with the
COVID-19 pandemic. Overall, we expect our ability to be self-funding to
continue as long as macroeconomic factors support current trends in our sales.

Operating Expense Trends

As long as we see expanding sales, and excluding the potential impact of
macroeconomic conditions including increased labor costs and impairment
charges on certain assets as explained below, we generally expect operating
expenses relative to revenues to decrease as we continue to increase
operational efficiency and process automation. We expect operating expenses to
continue to grow in 2023 as we are expanding our operations globally.

In the first quarter of 2021, we invested an aggregate $1.50 billion in
bitcoin. As with any investment and consistent with how we manage fiat-based
cash and cash-equivalent accounts, we may increase or decrease our holdings of
digital assets at any time based on the needs of the business and our view of
market and environmental conditions. Digital assets are considered indefinite-
lived intangible assets under applicable accounting rules. Accordingly, any
decrease in their fair values below our carrying values for such assets at any
time subsequent to their acquisition will require us to recognize impairment
charges, whereas we may make no upward revisions for any market price
increases until a sale. For any digital assets held now or in the future,
these charges may negatively impact our profitability in the periods in which
such impairments occur even if the overall market values of these assets
increase. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $204
million of impairment losses resulting from changes to the carrying value of
our bitcoin and gains of $64 million on certain conversions of bitcoin into
fiat currency by us.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. ("GAAP"). The preparation
of the consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues,
costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on
historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that
we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting
estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly,
actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our
management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To
the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and
actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected.

The estimates used for, but not limited to, determining significant economic
incentive for resale value guarantee arrangements, sales return reserves, the
collectability of accounts and financing receivables, inventory valuation,
warranties, fair value of long-lived assets, goodwill, fair value of financial
instruments, fair value and residual value of operating lease vehicles and
solar energy systems subject to leases could be impacted. We have assessed the
impact and are not aware of any specific events or circumstances that required
an update to our estimates and assumptions or materially affected the carrying
value of our assets or liabilities as of the date of issuance of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. These estimates may change as new events occur and
additional information is obtained. Actual results could differ materially
from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

34

* * *

Revenue Recognition

Automotive Sales

Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to cash and financing
deliveries of new vehicles, and specific other features and services that meet
the definition of a performance obligation under Accounting Standards
Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606"),
including access to our FSD features, internet connectivity, Supercharger
network and over-the-air software updates. We recognize revenue on automotive
sales upon delivery to the customer, which is when the control of a vehicle
transfers. Payments are typically received at the point control transfers or
in accordance with payment terms customary to the business, except sales we
finance for which payments are collected over the contractual loan term. We
also recognize a sales return reserve based on historical experience plus
consideration for expected future market values, when we offer resale value
guarantees or similar buyback terms. Other features and services such as
access to our internet connectivity, legacy programs offering unlimited free
Supercharging and over-the-air software updates are provisioned upon control
transfer of a vehicle and recognized over time on a straight-line basis as we
have a stand-ready obligation to deliver such services to the customer. Other
limited free Supercharging incentives are recognized based on actual usage or
expiration, whichever is earlier. We recognize revenue related to these other
features and services over the performance period, which is generally the
expected ownership life of the vehicle. Revenue related to FSD is recognized
when functionality is delivered to the customer and the portion related to
software updates is recognized over time. For our obligations related to
automotive sales, we estimate standalone selling price by considering costs
used to develop and deliver the service, third-party pricing of similar
options and other information that may be available.

Any fees that are paid or payable by us to a customer's lender when we arrange
the financing are recognized as an offset against automotive sales revenue.
Costs to obtain a contract mainly relate to commissions paid to our sales
personnel for the sale of vehicles. As our contract costs related to
automotive sales are typically fulfilled within one year, the costs to obtain
a contract are expensed as incurred. Amounts billed to customers related to
shipping and handling are classified as automotive sales revenue, and we have
elected to recognize the cost for freight and shipping when control over
vehicles, parts or accessories have transferred to the customer as an expense
in cost of automotive sales revenue. Our policy is to exclude taxes collected
from a customer from the transaction price of automotive contracts.

We offer resale value guarantees or similar buy-back terms to certain
international customers who purchase vehicles and who finance their vehicles
through one of our specified commercial banking partners. Under these
programs, we receive full payment for the vehicle sales price at the time of
delivery and our counterparty has the option of selling their vehicle back to
us during the guarantee period, which currently is generally at the end of the
term of the applicable loan or financing program, for a pre-determined resale
value. We account for such automotive sales as a sale with a right of return
when we do not believe the customer has a significant economic incentive to
exercise the resale value guarantee provided to them at contract inception.
The process to determine whether there is a significant economic incentive
includes a comparison of a vehicle's estimated market value at the time the
option is exercisable with the guaranteed resale value to determine the
customer's economic incentive to exercise. On a quarterly basis, we assess the
estimated market values of vehicles sold with resale value guarantees to
determine whether there have been changes to the likelihood of future product
returns. As we accumulate more data related to the resale values of our
vehicles or as market conditions change, there may be material changes to
their estimated values.

Inventory Valuation

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is
computed using standard cost for vehicles and energy products, which
approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. We record inventory
write-downs for excess or obsolete inventories based upon assumptions about
current and future demand forecasts. If our inventory on-hand is in excess of
our future demand forecast, the excess amounts are written-off.

We also review our inventory to determine whether its carrying value exceeds
the net amount realizable upon the ultimate sale of the inventory. This
requires us to determine the estimated selling price of our vehicles less the
estimated cost to convert the inventory on-hand into a finished product. Once
inventory is written-down, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is
established and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in
the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.

Should our estimates of future selling prices or production costs change,
additional and potentially material write-downs may be required. A small
change in our estimates may result in a material charge to our reported
financial results.

35

* * *

Warranties

We provide a manufacturer's warranty on all new and used vehicles and a
warranty on the installation and components of the energy generation and
storage systems we sell for periods typically between 10 to 25 years. We
accrue a warranty reserve for the products sold by us, which includes our best
estimate of the projected costs to repair or replace items under warranties
and recalls if identified. These estimates are based on actual claims incurred
to date and an estimate of the nature, frequency and costs of future claims.
These estimates are inherently uncertain given our relatively short history of
sales, and changes to our historical or projected warranty experience may
cause material changes to the warranty reserve in the future. The warranty
reserve does not include projected warranty costs associated with our vehicles
subject to operating lease accounting and our solar energy systems under lease
contracts or PPAs, as the costs to repair these warranty claims are expensed
as incurred. The portion of the warranty reserve expected to be incurred
within the next 12 months is included within Accrued liabilities and other,
while the remaining balance is included within Other long-term liabilities on
the consolidated balance sheets. Warranty expense is recorded as a component
of Cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of operations. Due to the
magnitude of our automotive business, accrued warranty balance is primarily
related to our automotive segment.

Stock-Based Compensation

We use the fair value method of accounting for our stock options and
restricted stock units ("RSUs") granted to employees and for our employee
stock purchase plan (the "ESPP") to measure the cost of employee services
received in exchange for the stock-based awards. The fair value of stock
option awards with only service and/or performance conditions is estimated on
the grant or offering date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The
Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires inputs such as the risk-free
interest rate, expected term and expected volatility. These inputs are
subjective and generally require significant judgment. The fair value of RSUs
is measured on the grant date based on the closing fair market value of our
common stock. The resulting cost is recognized over the period during which an
employee is required to provide service in exchange for the awards, usually
the vesting period, which is generally four years for stock options and RSUs
and six months for the ESPP. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on
a straight-line basis, net of actual forfeitures in the period.

For performance-based awards, stock-based compensation expense is recognized
over the expected performance achievement period of individual performance
milestones when the achievement of each individual performance milestone
becomes probable.

As we accumulate additional employee stock-based awards data over time and as
we incorporate market data related to our common stock, we may calculate
significantly different volatilities and expected lives, which could
materially impact the valuation of our stock-based awards and the stock-based
compensation expense that we will recognize in future periods. Stock-based
compensation expense is recorded in Cost of revenues, Research and development
expense and Selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated
statements of operations.

Income Taxes

We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income
taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance
recorded against our net deferred tax assets. We make these estimates and
judgments about our future taxable income that are based on assumptions that
are consistent with our future plans. Tax laws, regulations and administrative
practices may be subject to change due to economic or political conditions
including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate
multinationals. The U.S., many countries in the European Union and a number of
other countries are actively considering changes in this regard. As of
December 31, 2022, we had recorded a full valuation allowance on our net U.S.
deferred tax assets because we expect that it is more likely than not that our
U.S. deferred tax assets will not be realized. Should the actual amounts
differ from our estimates, the amount of our valuation allowance could be
materially impacted.

Furthermore, significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions.
In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and
calculations for which the ultimate tax settlement is uncertain. As a result,
we recognize the effect of this uncertainty on our tax attributes or taxes
payable based on our estimates of the eventual outcome. These effects are
recognized when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are
supportable, we believe that it is more likely than not that some of those
positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. We are
required to file income tax returns in the U.S. and various foreign
jurisdictions, which requires us to interpret the applicable tax laws and
regulations in effect in such jurisdictions. Such returns are subject to audit
by the various federal, state and foreign taxing authorities, who may disagree
with respect to our tax positions. We believe that our consideration is
adequate for all open audit years based on our assessment of many factors,
including past experience and interpretations of tax law. We review and update
our estimates in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the
closing of a tax audit, the lapse of a statute of limitations or a change in
estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters differs
from our expectations, such differences may impact income tax expense in the
period in which such determination is made. The eventual impact on our income
tax expense depends in part if we still have a valuation allowance recorded
against our deferred tax assets in the period that such determination is made.

36

* * *

Results of Operations

Revenues

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|

|

|

2022 vs. 2021 Change

|

|

|

2021 vs. 2020 Change

|  
  
(Dollars in millions)

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Automotive sales

|

|

$

|

67,210

|

|

|

$

|

44,125

|

|

|

$

|

24,604

|

|

|

$

|

23,085

|

|

|

|

52

|

%

|

|

$

|

19,521

|

|

|

|

79

|

%  
  
Automotive regulatory credits

|

|

|

1,776

|

|

|

|

1,465

|

|

|

|

1,580

|

|

|

|

311

|

|

|

|

21

|

%

|

|

|

(115

|

)

|

|

|

(7

|

)%  
  
Automotive leasing

|

|

|

2,476

|

|

|

|

1,642

|

|

|

|

1,052

|

|

|

|

834

|

|

|

|

51

|

%

|

|

|

590

|

|

|

|

56

|

%  
  
Total automotive revenues

|

|

|

71,462

|

|

|

|

47,232

|

|

|

|

27,236

|

|

|

|

24,230

|

|

|

|

51

|

%

|

|

|

19,996

|

|

|

|

73

|

%  
  
Services and other

|

|

|

6,091

|

|

|

|

3,802

|

|

|

|

2,306

|

|

|

|

2,289

|

|

|

|

60

|

%

|

|

|

1,496

|

|

|

|

65

|

%  
  
Total automotive & services and other  
segment revenue

|

|

|

77,553

|

|

|

|

51,034

|

|

|

|

29,542

|

|

|

|

26,519

|

|

|

|

52

|

%

|

|

|

21,492

|

|

|

|

73

|

%  
  
Energy generation and storage segment revenue

|

|

|

3,909

|

|

|

|

2,789

|

|

|

|

1,994

|

|

|

|

1,120

|

|

|

|

40

|

%

|

|

|

795

|

|

|

|

40

|

%  
  
Total revenues

|

|

$

|

81,462

|

|

|

$

|

53,823

|

|

|

$

|

31,536

|

|

|

$

|

27,639

|

|

|

|

51

|

%

|

|

$

|

22,287

|

|

|

|

71

|

%  
  
Automotive & Services and Other Segment

Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to cash and financing
deliveries of new Model S, Model X, Semi, Model 3, and Model Y vehicles,
including access to our FSD features, internet connectivity, free
Supercharging programs and over-the-air software updates. These deliveries are
vehicles that are not subject to lease accounting.

Automotive regulatory credits includes sales of regulatory credits to other
automotive manufacturers. Our revenue from automotive regulatory credits is
directly related to our new vehicle production, sales and pricing negotiated
with our customers. We monetize them proactively as new vehicles are sold
based on standing arrangements with buyers of such credits, typically as close
as possible to the production and delivery of the vehicle or changes in
regulation impacting the credits.

Automotive leasing revenue includes the amortization of revenue for vehicles
under direct operating lease agreements. Additionally, automotive leasing
revenue includes direct sales-type leasing programs where we recognize all
revenue associated with the sales-type lease upon delivery to the customer.

Services and other revenue consists of non-warranty after-sales vehicle
services and parts, paid Supercharging, sales of used vehicles, retail
merchandise and vehicle insurance revenue.

2022 compared to 2021

Automotive sales revenue increased $23.09 billion, or 52%, in the year ended
December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily
due to an increase of 347,024 Model 3 and Model Y deliveries, and an increase
of 38,183 Model S and Model X deliveries year over year. This was achieved
from production ramping of Model Y at Gigafactory Shanghai and the Fremont
Factory as well as the start of production at Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg
and Gigafactory Texas in 2022, at a higher combined average selling price from
a higher proportion of Model Y sales despite a negative impact from the United
States dollar strengthening against other foreign currencies in 2022 compared
to the prior period. There was also an increase in production of Model S and
Model X and an increase in the combined average selling price of Model S and
Model X with a higher proportion of Model X sales, compared to the prior
period as deliveries of the new versions of Model S and Model X began ramping
in the second and fourth quarters of 2021, respectively. Further, during the
fourth quarter of 2022, we recognized $324 million in revenue related to the
general FSD feature release in North America.

Automotive regulatory credits revenue increased $311 million, or 21%, in the
year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021,
primarily due to changes in regulation which entitled us to additional
consideration of $288 million in revenue in the first quarter of 2022 for
credits sold previously, in the absence of which we had only an immaterial
increase in automotive regulatory credits revenue.

Automotive leasing revenue increased $834 million, or 51%, in the year ended
December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The change
is primarily due to an increase in activities under our direct operating lease
program as well as an increase in direct sales-type leasing revenue.

Services and other revenue increased $2.29 billion, or 60%, in the year ended
December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The change
is primarily due to increase in used vehicle revenue driven by increases in
volume and average selling prices of used Tesla and non-Tesla vehicles, non-
warranty maintenance services revenue as our fleet continues to grow, paid
Supercharging revenue, insurance services revenue and retail merchandise
revenue.

37

* * *

Energy Generation and Storage Segment

Energy generation and storage revenue includes sales and leasing of solar
energy generation and energy storage products, financing of solar energy
generation products, services related to such products and sales of solar
energy systems incentives.

2022 compared to 2021

Energy generation and storage revenue increased $1.12 billion, or 40%, in the
year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021,
primarily due to an increase in energy storage deployments of Megapack,
Powerwall and higher average selling price of Megapack, as well as on solar
cash and loan deployments driven by price increases in 2022.

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|

|

|

2022 vs. 2021 Change

|

|

|

2021 vs. 2020 Change

|  
  
(Dollars in millions)

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Cost of revenues

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Automotive sales

|

|

$

|

49,599

|

|

|

$

|

32,415

|

|

|

$

|

19,696

|

|

|

$

|

17,184

|

|

|

|

53

|

%

|

|

$

|

12,719

|

|

|

|

65

|

%  
  
Automotive leasing

|

|

|

1,509

|

|

|

|

978

|

|

|

|

563

|

|

|

|

531

|

|

|

|

54

|

%

|

|

|

415

|

|

|

|

74

|

%  
  
Total automotive cost of revenues

|

|

|

51,108

|

|

|

|

33,393

|

|

|

|

20,259

|

|

|

|

17,715

|

|

|

|

53

|

%

|

|

|

13,134

|

|

|

|

65

|

%  
  
Services and other

|

|

|

5,880

|

|

|

|

3,906

|

|

|

|

2,671

|

|

|

|

1,974

|

|

|

|

51

|

%

|

|

|

1,235

|

|

|

|

46

|

%  
  
Total automotive & services and other  
segment cost of revenues

|

|

|

56,988

|

|

|

|

37,299

|

|

|

|

22,930

|

|

|

|

19,689

|

|

|

|

53

|

%

|

|

|

14,369

|

|

|

|

63

|

%  
  
Energy generation and storage segment

|

|

|

3,621

|

|

|

|

2,918

|

|

|

|

1,976

|

|

|

|

703

|

|

|

|

24

|

%

|

|

|

942

|

|

|

|

48

|

%  
  
Total cost of revenues

|

|

$

|

60,609

|

|

|

$

|

40,217

|

|

|

$

|

24,906

|

|

|

$

|

20,392

|

|

|

|

51

|

%

|

|

$

|

15,311

|

|

|

|

61

|

%  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Gross profit total automotive

|

|

$

|

20,354

|

|

|

$

|

13,839

|

|

|

$

|

6,977

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Gross margin total automotive

|

|

|

28.5

|

%

|

|

|

29.3

|

%

|

|

|

25.6

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Gross profit total automotive & services and other  
segment

|

|

$

|

20,565

|

|

|

$

|

13,735

|

|

|

$

|

6,612

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Gross margin total automotive & services and other  
segment

|

|

|

26.5

|

%

|

|

|

26.9

|

%

|

|

|

22.4

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Gross profit energy generation and storage segment

|

|

$

|

288

|

|

|

$

|

(129

|

)

|

|

$

|

18

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Gross margin energy generation and storage segment

|

|

|

7.4

|

%

|

|

|

(4.6

|

)%

|

|

|

0.9

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Total gross profit

|

|

$

|

20,853

|

|

|

$

|

13,606

|

|

|

$

|

6,630

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Total gross margin

|

|

|

25.6

|

%

|

|

|

25.3

|

%

|

|

|

21.0

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Automotive & Services and Other Segment

Cost of automotive sales revenue includes direct and indirect materials, labor
costs, manufacturing overhead, including depreciation costs of tooling and
machinery, shipping and logistic costs, vehicle connectivity costs,
allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our free
Supercharging programs and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Cost of
automotive sales revenues also includes adjustments to warranty expense and
charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its
estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand
inventory in excess of forecasted demand.

Cost of automotive leasing revenue includes the depreciation of operating
lease vehicles, cost of goods sold associated with direct sales-type leases
and warranty expense related to leased vehicles. Cost of automotive leasing
revenue also includes vehicle connectivity costs and allocations of
electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network for
vehicles under our leasing programs.

Cost of services and other revenue includes costs associated with providing
non-warranty after-sales services and parts, costs of paid Supercharging, cost
of used vehicles including refurbishment costs, costs for retail merchandise,
and costs to provide vehicle insurance.

38

* * *

2022 compared to 2021

Cost of automotive sales revenue increased $17.18 billion, or 53%, in the year
ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, in
line with the growth in revenue year over year, as discussed above. The
average combined cost per unit of Model 3 and Model Y increased year over year
due to rising raw material, logistics and warranty costs. There were also idle
capacity charges of $306 million primarily related to the temporary suspension
of production at Gigafactory Shanghai as well as the ramping up of production
in Gigafactory Texas and our proprietary battery cells manufacturing during
the year ended December 31, 2022. We had also incurred costs related to the
ramp up of production in Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg during the year ended
December 31, 2022. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in
combined average Model S and Model X costs per unit driven by lower average
cost for the new versions from ramping up production. Further, these increases
in costs of revenue were positively impacted by the United States dollar
strengthening against other foreign currencies in 2022 compared to the prior
period.

Cost of automotive leasing revenue increased $531 million, or 54%, in the year
ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021,
primarily due to an increase in cumulative vehicles under our direct operating
lease program and an increase in direct sales-type leasing cost of revenues
from more activities in the current year.

Cost of services and other revenue increased $1.97 billion, or 51%, in the
year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.
The change is primarily due to an increase in used vehicle cost of revenue
driven by increases in volume and costs of used Tesla and non-Tesla vehicle
sales, an increase in non-warranty maintenance service revenue, and an
increase in costs of paid Supercharging, insurance services and retail
merchandise.

Gross margin for total automotive decreased from 29.3% to 28.5% in the year
ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. This
was driven by the changes in automotive sales revenue and cost of automotive
sales revenue, partially offset by an increase in regulatory credits revenue,
as discussed earlier.

Gross margin for total automotive & services and other segment decreased from
26.9% to 26.5% in the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year
ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to the automotive gross margin decrease
discussed above, partially offset by an improvement in our services and other
gross margin. Additionally, services and other was a higher percentage of the
segment gross margin during the year ended 2022 as compared to the prior year.

Energy Generation and Storage Segment

Cost of energy generation and storage revenue includes direct and indirect
material and labor costs, warehouse rent, freight, warranty expense, other
overhead costs and amortization of certain acquired intangible assets. Cost of
energy generation and storage revenue also includes charges to write down the
carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable
value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of
forecasted demand. In agreements for solar energy system and PPAs where we are
the lessor, the cost of revenue is primarily comprised of depreciation of the
cost of leased solar energy systems, maintenance costs associated with those
systems and amortization of any initial direct costs.

2022 compared to 2021

Cost of energy generation and storage revenue increased $703 million, or 24%,
in the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31,
2021, primarily due to increases in energy storage deployments of Megapack and
Powerwall, as well as higher average cost of solar cash and loan deployments
due to increased component costs.

Gross margin for energy generation and storage increased from -4.6% to 7.4% in
the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31,
2021. This was driven by the growth in energy generation and storage revenue
and cost of energy generation and storage revenue as discussed above.
Additionally, there was a higher proportion of energy storage sales, which
operated at a higher gross margin, within the segment.

39

* * *

Research and Development Expense

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|

|

|

2022 vs. 2021 Change

|

|

|

2021 vs. 2020 Change

|  
  
(Dollars in millions)

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Research and development

|

|

$

|

3,075

|

|

|

$

|

2,593

|

|

|

$

|

1,491

|

|

|

$

|

482

|

|

|

|

19

|

%

|

|

$

|

1,102

|

|

|

|

74

|

%  
  
As a percentage of revenues

|

|

|

4

|

%

|

|

|

5

|

%

|

|

|

5

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Research and development ("R&D") expenses consist primarily of personnel costs
for our teams in engineering and research, manufacturing engineering and
manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and
professional services and amortized equipment expense.

R&D expenses increased $482 million, or 19%, in the year ended December 31,
2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was
primarily due to a $175 million increase in employee and labor related
expenses, a $132 million increase in facilities, outside services, freight and
depreciation expense, a $101 million increase in R&D expensed materials and an
$87 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. These increases were
to support our expanding product roadmap and technologies including our
proprietary battery cells. Further, there were additional R&D expenses in the
first quarter of 2022 as we were in the pre-production phase at Gigafactory
Texas and started production at Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg only closer to
the end of the first quarter of 2022.

R&D expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased from 5% to 4% in the year
ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. Our
R&D expenses have decreased as a proportion of total revenues despite
expanding product roadmap and technologies.

Selling, General and Administrative Expense

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|

|

|

2022 vs. 2021 Change

|

|

|

2021 vs. 2020 Change

|  
  
(Dollars in millions)

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Selling, general and administrative

|

|

$

|

3,946

|

|

|

$

|

4,517

|

|

|

$

|

3,145

|

|

|

$

|

(571

|

)

|

|

|

(13

|

)%

|

|

$

|

1,372

|

|

|

|

44

|

%  
  
As a percentage of revenues

|

|

|

5

|

%

|

|

|

8

|

%

|

|

|

10

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses generally consist of
personnel and facilities costs related to our stores, marketing, sales,
executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal
organizations, as well as fees for professional and contract services and
litigation settlements.

SG&A expenses decreased $571 million, or 13%, in the year ended December 31,
2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. This is primarily due to
a decrease of $822 million in stock-based compensation expense, most of which
is attributable to the lower stock-based compensation expense of $844 million
on the 2018 CEO Performance Award. This was partially offset by the overall
growth in stock-based compensation due to increased headcount. See Note 13,
Equity Incentive Plans, to the consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There was also a decrease of $87
million in overall employee and labor related expenses driven by a decrease of
$340 million of additional payroll tax due to our CEO's option exercises from
the 2012 CEO Performance Award in 2021, partially offset by an increase in
other employee and labor costs from increased headcount. These decreases were
partially offset by an increase of $222 million in facilities-related
expenses, and an increase of $117 million in professional services, sales and
marketing activities and other costs.

SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased from 8% to 5% in the year
ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. Our
SG&A expenses have decreased as a proportion of total revenues due to the
decrease in expenses as discussed above, in addition to operational
efficiencies.

Restructuring and Other Expense

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|

|

|

2022 vs. 2021 Change

|

|

2021 vs. 2020 Change  
  
(Dollars in millions)

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|

|

$

|

|

|

%  
  
Restructuring and other

|

|

$

|

176

|

|

|

$

|

(27

|

)

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

203

|

|

|

Not meaningful

|

|

$

|

(27

|

)

|

|

Not meaningful  
  
During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, we recorded $204 million
and $101 million, respectively, of impairment losses on digital assets,
respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, we also
realized gains of $64 million and $128 million, respectively, in connection
with converting our holdings of digital assets into fiat currency. See Note 3,
Digital Assets, Net, to the consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.
Additionally, we recorded other expenses of $36 million during the second
quarter of the year ended December 31, 2022, related to employee terminations.

40

* * *

Interest Income

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|

|

|

2022 vs. 2021 Change

|

|

|

2021 vs. 2020 Change

|  
  
(Dollars in millions)

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Interest income

|

|

$

|

297

|

|

|

$

|

56

|

|

|

$

|

30

|

|

|

$

|

241

|

|

|

|

430

|

%

|

|

$

|

26

|

|

|

|

87

|

%  
  
Interest income increased $241 million, or 430%, in the year ended December
31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. This increase was
primarily due to higher interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and
short-term investments during the year ended 2022 compared to the prior
period. This was driven by an increase in our average cash and cash
equivalents and short-term investments balance and rising interest rates.

Interest Expense

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|

|

|

2022 vs. 2021 Change

|

|

|

2021 vs. 2020 Change

|  
  
(Dollars in millions)

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Interest expense

|

|

$

|

(191

|

)

|

|

$

|

(371

|

)

|

|

$

|

(748

|

)

|

|

$

|

180

|

|

|

|

(49

|

)%

|

|

$

|

377

|

|

|

|

(50

|

)%  
  
Interest expense decreased $180 million, or 49%, in the year ended December
31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. This decrease was
primarily due to the continued reduction in our overall debt balance offset by
lower capitalized interest. See Note 11, Debt, to the consolidated financial
statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further
details.

Other (Expense) Income, Net

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|

|

|

2022 vs. 2021 Change

|

|

2021 vs. 2020 Change  
  
(Dollars in millions)

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|

|

$

|

|

|

%  
  
Other (expense) income, net

|

|

$

|

(43

|

)

|

|

$

|

135

|

|

|

$

|

(122

|

)

|

|

$

|

(178

|

)

|

|

Not meaningful

|

|

$

|

257

|

|

|

Not meaningful  
  
Other (expense) income, net, consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and
losses related to our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and
liabilities. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary
depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates.

Other (expense) income, net, changed unfavorably by $178 million in the year
ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The
change is primarily due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

Provision for Income Taxes

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|

|

|

2022 vs. 2021 Change

|

|

|

2021 vs. 2020 Change

|  
  
(Dollars in millions)

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Provision for income taxes

|

|

$

|

1,132

|

|

|

$

|

699

|

|

|

$

|

292

|

|

|

$

|

433

|

|

|

|

62

|

%

|

|

$

|

407

|

|

|

|

139

|

%  
  
Effective tax rate

|

|

|

8

|

%

|

|

|

11

|

%

|

|

|

25

|

%

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Our provision for income taxes increased by $433 million, or 62%, in the year
ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021,
primarily due to the increase in our pre-tax income year over year.

Our effective tax rate decreased from 11% to 8% in the year ended December 31,
2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to changes
in mix of jurisdictional earnings.

See Note 14, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable
Noncontrolling Interests

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|

|

|

2022 vs. 2021 Change

|

|

|

2021 vs. 2020 Change

|  
  
(Dollars in millions)

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|

|

|

$

|

|

|

%

|  
  
Net income attributable to noncontrolling  
interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests  
in subsidiaries

|

|

$

|

31

|

|

|

$

|

125

|

|

|

$

|

141

|

|

|

$

|

(94

|

)

|

|

|

(75

|

)%

|

|

$

|

(16

|

)

|

|

|

(11

|

)%  
  
41

* * *

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable
noncontrolling interests decreased by $94 million, or 75%, in the year ended
December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. These
changes were due to a decrease in allocations to financing fund investors.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We expect to continue to generate net positive operating cash flow as we have
done in the last four fiscal years. The cash we generate from our core
operations enables us to fund ongoing operations and production, our research
and development projects for new products and technologies including our
proprietary battery cells, additional manufacturing ramps at existing
manufacturing facilities such as the Fremont Factory, Gigafactory Nevada,
Gigafactory Shanghai and Gigafactory New York, the ramp of Gigafactory Berlin-
Brandenburg and Gigafactory Texas and the continued expansion of our retail
and service locations, body shops, Mobile Service fleet, Supercharger network
and energy product installation capabilities.

In addition, because a large portion of our future expenditures will be to
fund our growth, we expect that if needed we will be able to adjust our
capital and operating expenditures by operating segment. For example, if our
near-term manufacturing operations decrease in scale or ramp more slowly than
expected, including due to global economic or business conditions, we may
choose to correspondingly slow the pace of our capital expenditures. Finally,
we continually evaluate our cash needs and may decide it is best to raise
additional capital or seek alternative financing sources to fund the rapid
growth of our business, including through drawdowns on existing or new debt
facilities or financing funds. Conversely, we may also from time to time
determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily repay certain
indebtedness early.

Accordingly, we believe that our current sources of funds will provide us with
adequate liquidity during the 12-month period following December 31, 2022, as
well as in the long-term.

See the sections below for more details regarding the material requirements
for cash in our business and our sources of liquidity to meet such needs.

Material Cash Requirements

From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements
with vendors for the purchase of components and raw materials to be used in
the manufacture of our products. However, due to contractual terms,
variability in the precise growth curves of our development and production
ramps, and opportunities to renegotiate pricing, we generally do not have
binding and enforceable purchase orders under such contracts beyond the short-
term, and the timing and magnitude of purchase orders beyond such period is
difficult to accurately project.

As discussed in and subject to the considerations referenced in Part II, Item
7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations--Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks and 2023 Outlook--
Cash Flow and Capital Expenditure Trends in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
we currently expect our capital expenditures to support our projects globally
to be between $6.00 to $8.00 billion in 2023 and between $7.00 to $9.00
billion in each of the following two fiscal years. In connection with our
operations at Gigafactory New York, we have an agreement to spend or incur
$5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold
and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029 (pursuant
to a deferral of our required timelines to meet such obligations that was
granted in April 2021, and which was memorialized in an amendment to our
agreement with the SUNY Foundation in August 2021). We also have an operating
lease arrangement with the local government of Shanghai pursuant to which we
are required to spend RMB 14.08 billion in capital expenditures at Gigafactory
Shanghai by the end of 2023. For details regarding these obligations, refer to
Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial
statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

As of December 31, 2022, we and our subsidiaries had outstanding $2.06 billion
in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, of which $1.02 billion is
scheduled to become due in the succeeding 12 months. As of December 31, 2022,
our total minimum lease payments was $4.28 billion, of which $1.14 billion is
due in the succeeding 12 months. For details regarding our indebtedness and
lease obligations, refer to Note 11, Debt, and Note 12, Leases, to the
consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Sources and Conditions of Liquidity

Our sources to fund our material cash requirements are predominantly from our
deliveries and servicing of new and used vehicles, sales and installations of
our energy storage products and solar energy systems, proceeds from debt
facilities and proceeds from equity offerings, when applicable.

42

* * *

As of December 31, 2022, we had $16.25 billion and $5.93 billion of cash and
cash equivalents and short-term investments, respectively. Balances held in
foreign currencies had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $3.42 billion and consisted
primarily of Chinese yuan, euros and British pounds. In addition, we had $2.42
billion of unused committed amounts under our credit facilities as of December
31, 2022, which included $2.27 billion under our Credit Agreement which was
terminated in January 2023. Certain of such unused committed amounts are
subject to satisfying specified conditions prior to draw-down (such as
pledging to our lenders sufficient amounts of qualified receivables,
inventories, leased vehicles and our interests in those leases, solar energy
systems and the associated customer contracts or various other assets). In
January 2023, we entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility providing
for a commitment of up to $5.0 billion. For details regarding our
indebtedness, refer to Note 11, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements
included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We continue adapting our strategy to meet our liquidity and risk objectives,
such as investing in U.S. government and other investments, to do more
vertical integration, expand our product roadmap and provide financing options
to our customers.

Summary of Cash Flows

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
(Dollars in millions)

|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Net cash provided by operating activities

|

|

$

|

14,724

|

|

|

$

|

11,497

|

|

|

$

|

5,943

|  
  
Net cash used in investing activities

|

|

$

|

(11,973

|

)

|

|

$

|

(7,868

|

)

|

|

$

|

(3,132

|

)  
  
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities

|

|

$

|

(3,527

|

)

|

|

$

|

(5,203

|

)

|

|

$

|

9,973

|  
  
Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our
cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as
research and development and selling, general and administrative and working
capital. Our operating cash inflows include cash from vehicle sales and
related servicing, customer lease and financing payments, customer deposits,
cash from sales of regulatory credits and energy generation and storage
products. These cash inflows are offset by our payments to suppliers for
production materials and parts used in our manufacturing process, operating
expenses, operating lease payments and interest payments on our financings.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $3.23 billion to $14.72
billion during the year ended December 31, 2022 from $11.50 billion during the
year ended December 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to the increase
in net income excluding non-cash expenses, gains and losses of $7.65 billion,
offset by the overall increase in net operating assets and liabilities of
$4.43 billion. The increase in our net operating assets and liabilities was
mainly driven by a larger increase of inventory in the year ended December 31,
2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, partially offset by a
larger increase of accounts payable and accrued liabilities, to support the
ramp up in production at our factories and larger increases in other non-
current assets and prepaid expenses and other current assets. Additionally,
the increase in our net operating assets and other liabilities was partially
offset by a larger increase in other long-term liabilities as compared to the
prior year.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Cash flows from investing activities and their variability across each period
related primarily to capital expenditures, which were $7.16 billion for the
year ended December 31, 2022 and $6.48 billion for the year ended December 31,
2021, mainly for the expansions of Gigafactory Texas, the Fremont Factory,
Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg, and Gigafactory Shanghai. We also purchased
$5.84 billion of investments in the year ended December 31, 2022.
Additionally, cash inflows related to sales of digital assets were $936
million in the year ended December 31, 2022, and net cash outflows related to
digital assets were $1.23 billion in the year ended December 31, 2021 from
purchases of digital assets for $1.50 billion offset by proceeds from sales of
digital assets of $272 million.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $1.68 billion to $3.53
billion during the year ended December 31, 2022 from $5.20 billion during the
year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease was primarily due to a $1.92
billion decrease in repayments of convertible and other debt, net of proceeds
from issuances of debt. See Note 11, Debt, to the consolidated financial
statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further
details regarding our debt obligations.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated
financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

43

* * *

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Foreign Currency Risk

We transact business globally in multiple currencies and hence have foreign
currency risks related to our revenue, costs of revenue, operating expenses
and localized subsidiary debt denominated in currencies other than the U.S.
dollar (primarily the Chinese yuan, euro, pound sterling and Norwegian krone
in relation to our current year operations). In general, we are a net receiver
of currencies other than the U.S. dollar for our foreign subsidiaries.
Accordingly, changes in exchange rates affect our revenue and other operating
results as expressed in U.S. dollars as we do not typically hedge foreign
currency risk.

We have also experienced, and will continue to experience, fluctuations in our
net income as a result of gains (losses) on the settlement and the re-
measurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies that
are not the local currency (primarily consisting of our intercompany and cash
and cash equivalents balances).

We considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and
determined that it is reasonably possible that adverse changes in foreign
currency exchange rates of 10% for all currencies could be experienced in the
near-term. These changes were applied to our total monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in currencies other than our local currencies at the
balance sheet date to compute the impact these changes would have had on our
net income before income taxes. These changes would have resulted in a gain or
loss of $473 million at December 31, 2022 and $277 million at December 31,
2021, assuming no foreign currency hedging.

44

* * *

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

|  |  
---|---|---  
  
|

|

Page  
  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 238)

|

|

46  
  
Consolidated Balance Sheets

|

|

48  
  
Consolidated Statements of Operations

|

|

49  
  
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income

|

|

50  
  
Consolidated Statements of Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests and Equity

|

|

51  
  
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

|

|

52  
  
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

|

|

53  
  
45

* * *

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Tesla, Inc.

Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial
Reporting

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Tesla, Inc.
and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, of comprehensive income, of
redeemable noncontrolling interests and equity and of cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related
notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements").
We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations
and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.

Changes in Accounting Principles

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed the manner in which it accounts for convertible debt in 2021.

Basis for Opinions

The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control
over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to
express opinions on the Company's consolidated financial statements and on the
Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We
are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent
with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities
laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing
procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated
financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures
that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test
basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our
audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

46

* * *

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the
current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that
(i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated
financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective,
or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not
alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken
as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below,
providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts
or disclosures to which it relates.

Automotive Warranty Reserve

As described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, total accrued
warranty, which primarily relates to the automotive segment, was $3,505
million as of December 31, 2022. The Company provides a manufacturer's
warranty on all new and used Tesla vehicles. A warranty reserve is accrued for
these products sold, which includes management's best estimate of the
projected costs to repair or replace items under warranty and recalls if
identified. These estimates are based on actual claims incurred to date and an
estimate of the nature, frequency and costs of future claims.

The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures
relating to the automotive warranty reserve is a critical audit matter are the
significant judgment by management in determining the automotive warranty
reserve for certain Tesla vehicle models; this in turn led to significant
auditor judgment, subjectivity, and effort in performing procedures to
evaluate management's significant assumptions related to the nature, frequency
and costs of future claims for certain Tesla vehicle models, and the audit
effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge.

Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit
evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated
financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of
controls relating to management's estimate of the automotive warranty reserve
for certain Tesla vehicle models, including controls over management's
significant assumptions related to the nature, frequency and costs of future
claims as well as the completeness and accuracy of actual claims incurred to
date. These procedures also included, among others, performing one of the
following: (i) testing management's process for determining the automotive
warranty reserve for certain Tesla vehicle models or (ii) developing an
independent estimate of the automotive warranty reserve for certain Tesla
vehicle models and comparing the independent estimate to management's estimate
to evaluate the reasonableness of the estimate. Testing management's process
involved evaluating the reasonableness of significant assumptions related to
the nature and frequency of future claims and the related costs to repair or
replace items under warranty. Evaluating the assumptions related to the nature
and frequency of future claims and the related costs to repair or replace
items under warranty involved evaluating whether the assumptions used were
reasonable by performing a lookback analysis comparing prior period forecasted
claims to actual claims incurred. Developing the independent estimate involved
testing the completeness and accuracy of historical vehicle claims processed
and testing that such claims were appropriately used by management in the
estimation of future claims. Professionals with specialized skill and
knowledge were used to assist in developing an independent estimate of the
automotive warranty reserve for certain Tesla vehicle models and in evaluating
the appropriateness of certain aspects of management's significant assumptions
related to the nature and frequency of future claims.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Jose, California

January 30, 2023

We have served as the Company's auditor since 2005.

47

* * *

Tesla, Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(in millions, except per share data)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Assets

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Current assets

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents

|

|

$

|

16,253

|

|

|

$

|

17,576

|  
  
Short-term investments

|

|

|

5,932

|

|

|

|

131

|  
  
Accounts receivable, net

|

|

|

2,952

|

|

|

|

1,913

|  
  
Inventory

|

|

|

12,839

|

|

|

|

5,757

|  
  
Prepaid expenses and other current assets

|

|

|

2,941

|

|

|

|

1,723

|  
  
Total current assets

|

|

|

40,917

|

|

|

|

27,100

|  
  
Operating lease vehicles, net

|

|

|

5,035

|

|

|

|

4,511

|  
  
Solar energy systems, net

|

|

|

5,489

|

|

|

|

5,765

|  
  
Property, plant and equipment, net

|

|

|

23,548

|

|

|

|

18,884

|  
  
Operating lease right-of-use assets

|

|

|

2,563

|

|

|

|

2,016

|  
  
Digital assets, net

|

|

|

184

|

|

|

|

1,260

|  
  
Intangible assets, net

|

|

|

215

|

|

|

|

257

|  
  
Goodwill

|

|

|

194

|

|

|

|

200

|  
  
Other non-current assets

|

|

|

4,193

|

|

|

|

2,138

|  
  
Total assets

|

|

$

|

82,338

|

|

|

$

|

62,131

|  
  
Liabilities

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Current liabilities

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Accounts payable

|

|

$

|

15,255

|

|

|

$

|

10,025

|  
  
Accrued liabilities and other

|

|

|

7,142

|

|

|

|

5,719

|  
  
Deferred revenue

|

|

|

1,747

|

|

|

|

1,447

|  
  
Customer deposits

|

|

|

1,063

|

|

|

|

925

|  
  
Current portion of debt and finance leases

|

|

|

1,502

|

|

|

|

1,589

|  
  
Total current liabilities

|

|

|

26,709

|

|

|

|

19,705

|  
  
Debt and finance leases, net of current portion

|

|

|

1,597

|

|

|

|

5,245

|  
  
Deferred revenue, net of current portion

|

|

|

2,804

|

|

|

|

2,052

|  
  
Other long-term liabilities

|

|

|

5,330

|

|

|

|

3,546

|  
  
Total liabilities

|

|

|

36,440

|

|

|

|

30,548

|  
  
Commitments and contingencies (Note 15)

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

|

|

|

409

|

|

|

|

568

|  
  
Equity

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Stockholders' equity

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Preferred stock; $0.001 par value; 100 shares authorized;  
no shares issued and outstanding

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Common stock; $0.001 par value; 6,000 shares authorized;  
3,164 and 3,100 shares issued and outstanding as of  
December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively (1)

|

|

|

3

|

|

|

|

3

|  
  
Additional paid-in capital

|

|

|

32,177

|

|

|

|

29,803

|  
  
Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income

|

|

|

(361

|

)

|

|

|

54

|  
  
Retained earnings (1)

|

|

|

12,885

|

|

|

|

329

|  
  
Total stockholders' equity

|

|

|

44,704

|

|

|

|

30,189

|  
  
Noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

|

|

|

785

|

|

|

|

826

|  
  
Total liabilities and equity

|

|

$

|

82,338

|

|

|

$

|

62,131

|  
  
(1)

Prior period results have been adjusted to reflect the three-for-one stock
split effected in the form of a stock dividend in August 2022. See Note 1,
Overview, for details.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

48

* * *

Tesla, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

(in millions, except per share data)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Revenues

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Automotive sales

|

|

$

|

67,210

|

|

|

$

|

44,125

|

|

|

$

|

24,604

|  
  
Automotive regulatory credits

|

|

|

1,776

|

|

|

|

1,465

|

|

|

|

1,580

|  
  
Automotive leasing

|

|

|

2,476

|

|

|

|

1,642

|

|

|

|

1,052

|  
  
Total automotive revenues

|

|

|

71,462

|

|

|

|

47,232

|

|

|

|

27,236

|  
  
Energy generation and storage

|

|

|

3,909

|

|

|

|

2,789

|

|

|

|

1,994

|  
  
Services and other

|

|

|

6,091

|

|

|

|

3,802

|

|

|

|

2,306

|  
  
Total revenues

|

|

|

81,462

|

|

|

|

53,823

|

|

|

|

31,536

|  
  
Cost of revenues

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Automotive sales

|

|

|

49,599

|

|

|

|

32,415

|

|

|

|

19,696

|  
  
Automotive leasing

|

|

|

1,509

|

|

|

|

978

|

|

|

|

563

|  
  
Total automotive cost of revenues

|

|

|

51,108

|

|

|

|

33,393

|

|

|

|

20,259

|  
  
Energy generation and storage

|

|

|

3,621

|

|

|

|

2,918

|

|

|

|

1,976

|  
  
Services and other

|

|

|

5,880

|

|

|

|

3,906

|

|

|

|

2,671

|  
  
Total cost of revenues

|

|

|

60,609

|

|

|

|

40,217

|

|

|

|

24,906

|  
  
Gross profit

|

|

|

20,853

|

|

|

|

13,606

|

|

|

|

6,630

|  
  
Operating expenses

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Research and development

|

|

|

3,075

|

|

|

|

2,593

|

|

|

|

1,491

|  
  
Selling, general and administrative

|

|

|

3,946

|

|

|

|

4,517

|

|

|

|

3,145

|  
  
Restructuring and other

|

|

|

176

|

|

|

|

(27

|

)

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Total operating expenses

|

|

|

7,197

|

|

|

|

7,083

|

|

|

|

4,636

|  
  
Income from operations

|

|

|

13,656

|

|

|

|

6,523

|

|

|

|

1,994

|  
  
Interest income

|

|

|

297

|

|

|

|

56

|

|

|

|

30

|  
  
Interest expense

|

|

|

(191

|

)

|

|

|

(371

|

)

|

|

|

(748

|

)  
  
Other (expense) income, net

|

|

|

(43

|

)

|

|

|

135

|

|

|

|

(122

|

)  
  
Income before income taxes

|

|

|

13,719

|

|

|

|

6,343

|

|

|

|

1,154

|  
  
Provision for income taxes

|

|

|

1,132

|

|

|

|

699

|

|

|

|

292

|  
  
Net income

|

|

|

12,587

|

|

|

|

5,644

|

|

|

|

862

|  
  
Net income attributable to noncontrolling  
interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests  
in subsidiaries

|

|

|

31

|

|

|

|

125

|

|

|

|

141

|  
  
Net income attributable to common stockholders

|

|

$

|

12,556

|

|

|

$

|

5,519

|

|

|

$

|

721

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Net income per share of common stock  
attributable to common stockholders (1)

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Basic

|

|

$

|

4.02

|

|

|

$

|

1.87

|

|

|

$

|

0.25

|  
  
Diluted

|

|

$

|

3.62

|

|

|

$

|

1.63

|

|

|

$

|

0.21

|  
  
Weighted average shares used in computing net  
income per share of common stock (1)

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Basic

|

|

|

3,130

|

|

|

|

2,959

|

|

|

|

2,798

|  
  
Diluted

|

|

|

3,475

|

|

|

|

3,386

|

|

|

|

3,249

|  
  
(1)

Prior period results have been adjusted to reflect the three-for-one stock
split effected in the form of a stock dividend in August 2022. See Note 1,
Overview, for details.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

49

* * *

Tesla, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income

(in millions)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Net income

|

|

$

|

12,587

|

|

|

$

|

5,644

|

|

|

$

|

862

|  
  
Other comprehensive (loss) income:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Foreign currency translation adjustment

|

|

|

(392

|

)

|

|

|

(308

|

)

|

|

|

399

|  
  
Unrealized net loss on investments

|

|

|

(23

|

)

|

|

|

(1

|

)

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Comprehensive income

|

|

|

12,172

|

|

|

|

5,335

|

|

|

|

1,261

|  
  
Less: Comprehensive income attributable to  
noncontrolling interests and redeemable  
noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

|

|

|

31

|

|

|

|

125

|

|

|

|

141

|  
  
Comprehensive income attributable to  
common stockholders

|

|

$

|

12,141

|

|

|

$

|

5,210

|

|

|

$

|

1,120

|  
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

50

* * *

Tesla, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests and Equity

(in millions, except per share data)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Accumulated

|

|

|

(Accumulated

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Redeemable

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Additional

|

|

|

Other

|

|

|

Deficit)

|

|

|

Total

|

|

|

Noncontrolling

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Noncontrolling

|

|

|

|

Common Stock

|

|

|

Paid-In

|

|

|

Comprehensive

|

|

|

Retained

|

|

|

Stockholders'

|

|

|

Interests in

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
|

|

Interests

|

|

|

|

Shares (1)

|

|

|

Amount (1)

|

|

|

Capital

|

|

|

(Loss) Income

|

|

|

Earnings (1)

|

|

|

Equity

|

|

|

Subsidiaries

|

|

|

Equity

|  
  
Balance as of December 31, 2019

|

|

$

|

643

|

|

|

|

|

2,716

|

|

|

$

|

3

|

|

|

$

|

12,736

|

|

|

$

|

(36

|

)

|

|

$

|

(6,085

|

)

|

|

$

|

6,618

|

|

|

$

|

849

|

|

|

$

|

7,467

|  
  
Adjustments for prior periods from adopting ASU 2016-13

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(37

|

)

|

|

|

(37

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(37

|

)  
  
Reclassification between equity and mezzanine equity for convertible senior  
notes

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(51

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(51

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(51

|

)  
  
Exercises of conversion feature of convertible senior notes

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

5

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

59

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

59

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

59

|  
  
Issuance of common stock for equity incentive awards

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

55

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

417

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

417

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

417

|  
  
Issuance of common stock in public offerings, net of issuance costs of $68

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

103

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

12,269

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

12,269

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

12,269

|  
  
Stock-based compensation

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,861

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,861

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,861

|  
  
Contributions from noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

7

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

17

|

|

|

|

17

|  
  
Distributions to noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(67

|

)

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(132

|

)

|

|

|

(132

|

)  
  
Buy-outs of noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(4

|

)

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(31

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(31

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(31

|

)  
  
Net income

|

|

|

25

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

721

|

|

|

|

721

|

|

|

|

116

|

|

|

|

837

|  
  
Other comprehensive income

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

399

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

399

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

399

|  
  
Balance as of December 31, 2020

|

|

$

|

604

|

|

|

|

|

2,879

|

|

|

$

|

3

|

|

|

$

|

27,260

|

|

|

$

|

363

|

|

|

$

|

(5,401

|

)

|

|

$

|

22,225

|

|

|

$

|

850

|

|

|

$

|

23,075

|  
  
Adjustments for prior periods from adopting ASU 2020-06

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(474

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

211

|

|

|

|

(263

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(263

|

)  
  
Exercises of conversion feature of convertible senior notes

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

2

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

6

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

6

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

6

|  
  
Settlements of warrants

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

112

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Issuance of common stock for equity incentive awards

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

107

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

707

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

707

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

707

|  
  
Stock-based compensation

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

2,299

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

2,299

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

2,299

|  
  
Contributions from noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

2

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Distributions to noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(66

|

)

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(106

|

)

|

|

|

(106

|

)  
  
Buy-outs of noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(15

|

)

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

5

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

5

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

5

|  
  
Net income

|

|

|

43

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

5,519

|

|

|

|

5,519

|

|

|

|

82

|

|

|

|

5,601

|  
  
Other comprehensive loss

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(309

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(309

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(309

|

)  
  
Balance as of December 31, 2021

|

|

$

|

568

|

|

|

|

$

|

3,100

|

|

|

$

|

3

|

|

|

$

|

29,803

|

|

|

$

|

54

|

|

|

$

|

329

|

|

|

$

|

30,189

|

|

|

$

|

826

|

|

|

$

|

31,015

|  
  
Exercises of conversion feature of convertible senior notes

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Settlements of warrants

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

37

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Issuance of common stock for equity incentive awards

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

27

|

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

541

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

541

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

541

|  
  
Stock-based compensation

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,806

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,806

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

1,806

|  
  
Distributions to noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(46

|

)

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(113

|

)

|

|

|

(113

|

)  
  
Buy-outs of noncontrolling interests

|

|

|

(11

|

)

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

27

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

27

|

|

|

|

(61

|

)

|

|

|

(34

|

)  
  
Net (loss) income

|

|

|

(102

|

)

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

12,556

|

|

|

|

12,556

|

|

|

|

133

|

|

|

|

12,689

|  
  
Other comprehensive loss

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(415

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(415

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(415

|

)  
  
Balance as of December 31, 2022

|

|

$

|

409

|

|

|

|

|

3,164

|

|

|

$

|

3

|

|

|

$

|

32,177

|

|

|

$

|

(361

|

)

|

|

$

|

12,885

|

|

|

$

|

44,704

|

|

|

$

|

785

|

|

|

$

|

45,489

|  
  
(1)

Prior period results have been adjusted to reflect the three-for-one stock
split effected in the form of a stock dividend in August 2022. See Note 1,
Overview, for details.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

51

* * *

Tesla, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(in millions)

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Cash Flows from Operating Activities

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Net income

|

|

$

|

12,587

|

|

|

$

|

5,644

|

|

|

$

|

862

|  
  
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating
activities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Depreciation, amortization and impairment

|

|

|

3,747

|

|

|

|

2,911

|

|

|

|

2,322

|  
  
Stock-based compensation

|

|

|

1,560

|

|

|

|

2,121

|

|

|

|

1,734

|  
  
Inventory and purchase commitments write-downs

|

|

|

177

|

|

|

|

140

|

|

|

|

202

|  
  
Foreign currency transaction net unrealized loss (gain)

|

|

|

81

|

|

|

|

(55

|

)

|

|

|

114

|  
  
Non-cash interest and other operating activities

|

|

|

340

|

|

|

|

245

|

|

|

|

525

|  
  
Digital assets loss (gain), net

|

|

|

140

|

|

|

|

(27

|

)

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Accounts receivable

|

|

|

(1,124

|

)

|

|

|

(130

|

)

|

|

|

(652

|

)  
  
Inventory

|

|

|

(6,465

|

)

|

|

|

(1,709

|

)

|

|

|

(422

|

)  
  
Operating lease vehicles

|

|

|

(1,570

|

)

|

|

|

(2,114

|

)

|

|

|

(1,072

|

)  
  
Prepaid expenses and other current assets

|

|

|

(1,417

|

)

|

|

|

(271

|

)

|

|

|

(251

|

)  
  
Other non-current assets

|

|

|

(2,551

|

)

|

|

|

(1,291

|

)

|

|

|

(344

|

)  
  
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

|

|

|

6,029

|

|

|

|

4,578

|

|

|

|

2,102

|  
  
Deferred revenue

|

|

|

1,131

|

|

|

|

793

|

|

|

|

321

|  
  
Customer deposits

|

|

|

155

|

|

|

|

186

|

|

|

|

7

|  
  
Other long-term liabilities

|

|

|

1,904

|

|

|

|

476

|

|

|

|

495

|  
  
Net cash provided by operating activities

|

|

|

14,724

|

|

|

|

11,497

|

|

|

|

5,943

|  
  
Cash Flows from Investing Activities

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Purchases of property and equipment excluding finance leases, net of sales

|

|

|

(7,158

|

)

|

|

|

(6,482

|

)

|

|

|

(3,157

|

)  
  
Purchases of solar energy systems, net of sales

|

|

|

(5

|

)

|

|

|

(32

|

)

|

|

|

(75

|

)  
  
Purchases of digital assets

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(1,500

|

)

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Proceeds from sales of digital assets

|

|

|

936

|

|

|

|

272

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Purchase of intangible assets

|

|

|

(9

|

)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(10

|

)  
  
Purchases of investments

|

|

|

(5,835

|

)

|

|

|

(132

|

)

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Proceeds from maturities of investments

|

|

|

22

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Receipt of government grants

|

|

|

76

|

|

|

|

6

|

|

|

|

123

|  
  
Business combinations, net of cash acquired

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(13

|

)  
  
Net cash used in investing activities

|

|

|

(11,973

|

)

|

|

|

(7,868

|

)

|

|

|

(3,132

|

)  
  
Cash Flows from Financing Activities

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Proceeds from issuances of common stock in public offerings, net of issuance
costs

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

12,269

|  
  
Proceeds from issuances of debt

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

8,883

|

|

|

|

9,713

|  
  
Repayments of convertible and other debt

|

|

|

(3,364

|

)

|

|

|

(14,167

|

)

|

|

|

(11,623

|

)  
  
Collateralized lease repayments

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(9

|

)

|

|

|

(240

|

)  
  
Proceeds from exercises of stock options and other stock issuances

|

|

|

541

|

|

|

|

707

|

|

|

|

417

|  
  
Principal payments on finance leases

|

|

|

(502

|

)

|

|

|

(439

|

)

|

|

|

(338

|

)  
  
Debt issuance costs

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(9

|

)

|

|

|

(6

|

)  
  
Proceeds from investments by noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

2

|

|

|

|

24

|  
  
Distributions paid to noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

|

|

|

(157

|

)

|

|

|

(161

|

)

|

|

|

(208

|

)  
  
Payments for buy-outs of noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

|

|

|

(45

|

)

|

|

|

(10

|

)

|

|

|

(35

|

)  
  
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities

|

|

|

(3,527

|

)

|

|

|

(5,203

|

)

|

|

|

9,973

|  
  
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted
cash

|

|

|

(444

|

)

|

|

|

(183

|

)

|

|

|

334

|  
  
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash

|

|

|

(1,220

|

)

|

|

|

(1,757

|

)

|

|

|

13,118

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, beginning of period

|

|

|

18,144

|

|

|

|

19,901

|

|

|

|

6,783

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, end of period

|

|

$

|

16,924

|

|

|

$

|

18,144

|

|

|

$

|

19,901

|  
  
Supplemental Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Acquisitions of property and equipment included in liabilities

|

|

$

|

2,148

|

|

|

$

|

2,251

|

|

|

$

|

1,088

|  
  
Supplemental Disclosures

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Cash paid during the period for interest, net of amounts capitalized

|

|

$

|

152

|

|

|

$

|

266

|

|

|

$

|

444

|  
  
Cash paid during the period for taxes, net of refunds

|

|

$

|

1,203

|

|

|

$

|

561

|

|

|

$

|

115

|  
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

52

* * *

Tesla, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 1 - Overview

Tesla, Inc. ("Tesla", the "Company", "we", "us" or "our") was incorporated in
the State of Delaware on July 1, 2003. We design, develop, manufacture, sell
and lease high-performance fully electric vehicles and energy generation and
storage systems, and offer services related to our products. Our Chief
Executive Officer, as the chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), organizes
our company, manages resource allocations and measures performance among two
operating and reportable segments: (i) automotive and (ii) energy generation
and storage.

Since the first quarter of 2020, there has been a worldwide impact from the
COVID-19 pandemic, as well as an easing of restrictions on social, business,
travel and government activities and functions. There are ongoing global
impacts resulting from the pandemic, and we have been affected by temporary
manufacturing closures, employment and compensation adjustments and
impediments to administrative activities supporting our product deliveries and
deployments. In addition, we have experienced and are experiencing the impacts
of varying levels of inflation caused by the COVID‐19 pandemic and general
global economic conditions.

On August 5, 2022, we increased the number of authorized shares of common
stock by 4,000,000,000 shares and our Board of Directors declared the 2022
Stock Split. Each stockholder of record on August 17, 2022 received a dividend
of two additional shares of common stock for each then-held share, distributed
after close of trading on August 24, 2022. All share and per share amounts
presented herein have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the impact of the
2022 Stock Split.

Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
conformity with GAAP and reflect our accounts and operations and those of our
subsidiaries in which we have a controlling financial interest. In accordance
with the provisions of ASC 810, Consolidation ("ASC 810"), we consolidate any
variable interest entity ("VIE") of which we are the primary beneficiary. We
have formed VIEs with financing fund investors in the ordinary course of
business in order to facilitate the funding and monetization of certain
attributes associated with solar energy systems and leases under our direct
vehicle leasing programs. The typical condition for a controlling financial
interest ownership is holding a majority of the voting interests of an entity;
however, a controlling financial interest may also exist in entities, such as
VIEs, through arrangements that do not involve controlling voting interests.
ASC 810 requires a variable interest holder to consolidate a VIE if that party
has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly
impact the VIE's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of
the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to
receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the
VIE. We do not consolidate a VIE in which we have a majority ownership
interest when we are not considered the primary beneficiary. We have
determined that we are the primary beneficiary of all the VIEs (see Note 16,
Variable Interest Entity Arrangements). We evaluate our relationships with all
the VIEs on an ongoing basis to ensure that we continue to be the primary
beneficiary. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated
upon consolidation.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures
in the accompanying notes. The estimates used for, but not limited to,
determining significant economic incentive for resale value guarantee
arrangements, sales return reserves, the collectability of accounts and
finance receivables, inventory valuation, warranties, fair value of long-lived
assets, goodwill, fair value of financial instruments, fair value and residual
value of operating lease vehicles and solar energy systems subject to leases
could be impacted. We have assessed the impact and are not aware of any
specific events or circumstances that required an update to our estimates and
assumptions or materially affected the carrying value of our assets or
liabilities as of the date of issuance of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
These estimates may change as new events occur and additional information is
obtained. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions.

Reclassifications

Certain prior period balances have been reclassified to conform to the current
period presentation in the consolidated financial statements and the
accompanying notes.

53

* * *

Revenue Recognition

Revenue by source

The following table disaggregates our revenue by major source (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Automotive sales (1)

|

|

$

|

67,210

|

|

|

$

|

44,125

|

|

|

$

|

24,604

|  
  
Automotive regulatory credits

|

|

|

1,776

|

|

|

|

1,465

|

|

|

|

1,580

|  
  
Energy generation and storage sales

|

|

|

3,376

|

|

|

|

2,279

|

|

|

|

1,477

|  
  
Services and other

|

|

|

6,091

|

|

|

|

3,802

|

|

|

|

2,306

|  
  
Total revenues from sales and services

|

|

|

78,453

|

|

|

|

51,671

|

|

|

|

29,967

|  
  
Automotive leasing

|

|

|

2,476

|

|

|

|

1,642

|

|

|

|

1,052

|  
  
Energy generation and storage leasing

|

|

|

533

|

|

|

|

510

|

|

|

|

517

|  
  
Total revenues

|

|

$

|

81,462

|

|

|

$

|

53,823

|

|

|

$

|

31,536

|  
  
(1)

Pricing adjustments on our vehicle offerings can impact the estimate of
likelihood that customers would exercise their resale value guarantees,
resulting in an adjustment of our sales return reserve on vehicles sold with
resale value guarantees. Actual return rates being lower than expected and
increases in resale values of our vehicles in 2021 resulted in a net release
of our reserve of $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, which
represented increases in automotive sales revenue. The net release or increase
of reserves which impacted automotive sales revenue were immaterial for the
years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2020. Further, $324 million of
the total revenue recognized as of December 31, 2022 is related to the general
FSD feature release in North America in the fourth quarter of 2022.

Automotive Segment

Automotive Sales

Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to cash and financing
deliveries of new vehicles, and specific other features and services that meet
the definition of a performance obligation under ASC 606, including access to
our FSD features, internet connectivity, Supercharger network and over-the-air
software updates. We recognize revenue on automotive sales upon delivery to
the customer, which is when the control of a vehicle transfers. Payments are
typically received at the point control transfers or in accordance with
payment terms customary to the business, except sales we finance for which
payments are collected over the contractual loan term. We also recognize a
sales return reserve based on historical experience plus consideration for
expected future market values, when we offer resale value guarantees or
similar buyback terms. Other features and services such as access to our
internet connectivity, legacy programs offering unlimited free Supercharging
and over-the-air software updates are provisioned upon control transfer of a
vehicle and recognized over time on a straight-line basis as we have a stand-
ready obligation to deliver such services to the customer. Other limited free
Supercharging incentives are recognized based on actual usage or expiration,
whichever is earlier. We recognize revenue related to these other features and
services over the performance period, which is generally the expected
ownership life of the vehicle. Revenue related to FSD is recognized when
functionality is delivered to the customer and the portion related to software
updates is recognized over time. For our obligations related to automotive
sales, we estimate standalone selling price by considering costs used to
develop and deliver the service, third-party pricing of similar options and
other information that may be available.

Any fees that are paid or payable by us to a customer's lender when we arrange
the financing are recognized as an offset against automotive sales revenue.
Costs to obtain a contract mainly relate to commissions paid to our sales
personnel for the sale of vehicles. As our contract costs related to
automotive sales are typically fulfilled within one year, the costs to obtain
a contract are expensed as incurred. Amounts billed to customers related to
shipping and handling are classified as automotive sales revenue, and we have
elected to recognize the cost for freight and shipping when control over
vehicles, parts or accessories have transferred to the customer as an expense
in cost of automotive sales revenue. Our policy is to exclude taxes collected
from a customer from the transaction price of automotive contracts.

54

* * *

We offer resale value guarantees or similar buy-back terms to certain
international customers who purchase vehicles and who finance their vehicles
through one of our specified commercial banking partners. Under these
programs, we receive full payment for the vehicle sales price at the time of
delivery and our counterparty has the option of selling their vehicle back to
us during the guarantee period, which currently is generally at the end of the
term of the applicable loan or financing program, for a pre-determined resale
value. We account for such automotive sales as a sale with a right of return
when we do not believe the customer has a significant economic incentive to
exercise the resale value guarantee provided to them at contract inception.
The process to determine whether there is a significant economic incentive
includes a comparison of a vehicle's estimated market value at the time the
option is exercisable with the guaranteed resale value to determine the
customer's economic incentive to exercise. On a quarterly basis, we assess the
estimated market values of vehicles sold with resale value guarantees to
determine whether there have been changes to the likelihood of future product
returns. As we accumulate more data related to the resale values of our
vehicles or as market conditions change, there may be material changes to
their estimated values. The total sales return reserve on vehicles sold with
resale value guarantees was $91 million and $223 million as of December 31,
2022 and 2021, respectively, of which $40 million and $91 million was short-
term, respectively.

Deferred revenue related to the access to our FSD features, internet
connectivity, free Supercharging programs and over-the-air software updates
primarily on automotive sales consisted of the following (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Deferred revenue-- beginning of period

|

|

$

|

2,382

|

|

|

$

|

1,926

|  
  
Additions

|

|

|

1,178

|

|

|

|

847

|  
  
Net changes in liability for pre-existing contracts

|

|

|

(67

|

)

|

|

|

(25

|

)  
  
Revenue recognized

|

|

|

(580

|

)

|

|

|

(366

|

)  
  
Deferred revenue-- end of period

|

|

$

|

2,913

|

|

|

$

|

2,382

|  
  
Deferred revenue is equivalent to the total transaction price allocated to the
performance obligations that are unsatisfied, or partially unsatisfied, as of
the balance sheet date. Revenue recognized from the deferred revenue balance
as of December 31, 2021 was $472 million as of December 31, 2022, primarily
related to the general FSD feature release in North America in the fourth
quarter of 2022. We had recognized revenue of $312 million from the deferred
revenue balance as of December 31, 2020, for the year ended December 31, 2021.
Of the total deferred revenue balance as of December 31, 2022, we expect to
recognize $639 million of revenue in the next 12 months. The remaining balance
will be recognized at the time of transfer of control of the product or over
the performance period as discussed above in Automotive Sales.

We have been providing loans for financing our automotive deliveries during
the year ended December 31, 2022. We have recorded net financing receivables
on the consolidated balance sheets, of which $128 million is recorded within
Accounts receivable, net, for the current portion and $665 million is recorded
within Other non-current assets for the long-term portion, as of December 31,
2022.

Automotive Regulatory Credits

We earn tradable credits in the operation of our automotive business under
various regulations related to ZEVs, greenhouse gas, fuel economy and clean
fuel. We sell these credits to other regulated entities who can use the
credits to comply with emission standards and other regulatory requirements.

Payments for automotive regulatory credits are typically received at the point
control transfers to the customer, or in accordance with payment terms
customary to the business. We recognize revenue on the sale of automotive
regulatory credits, which have negligible incremental costs associated with
them, at the time control of the regulatory credits is transferred to the
purchasing party. Deferred revenue related to sales of automotive regulatory
credits was immaterial as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. Revenue recognized
from the deferred revenue balance as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 was
immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. During the year
ended December 31, 2022, we had also recognized $288 million in revenue due to
changes in regulation which entitled us to additional consideration for
credits sold previously.

55

* * *

Automotive Leasing Revenue

Direct Vehicle Operating Leasing Program

We have outstanding leases under our direct vehicle operating leasing programs
in the U.S., Canada and in certain countries in Europe. Qualifying customers
are permitted to lease a vehicle directly from Tesla for up to 48 months. At
the end of the lease term, customers are generally required to return the
vehicles to us. We account for these leasing transactions as operating leases.
We record leasing revenues to automotive leasing revenue on a straight-line
basis over the contractual term, and we record the depreciation of these
vehicles to cost of automotive leasing revenue. For the years ended December
31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we recognized $1.75 billion, $1.25 billion and $752
million of direct vehicle leasing revenue, respectively. As of December 31,
2022 and 2021, we had deferred $407 million and $392 million, respectively, of
lease-related upfront payments, which will be recognized on a straight-line
basis over the contractual terms of the individual leases.

Our policy is to exclude taxes collected from a customer from the transaction
price of automotive contracts.

Direct Sales-Type Leasing Program

We have outstanding direct leases and vehicles financed by us under loan
arrangements accounted for as sales-type leases under ASC 842, Leases ("ASC
842"), in certain countries in Asia and Europe. Depending on the specific
program, customers may or may not have a right to return the vehicle to us
during or at the end of the lease term. If the customer does not have a right
to return, the customer will take title to the vehicle at the end of the lease
term after making all contractual payments. Under the programs for which there
is a right to return, the purchase option is reasonably certain to be
exercised by the lessee and we therefore expect the customer to take title to
the vehicle at the end of the lease term after making all contractual
payments. Our arrangements under these programs can have terms for up to 72
months. We recognize all revenue and costs associated with the sales-type
lease as automotive leasing revenue and automotive leasing cost of revenue,
respectively, upon delivery of the vehicle to the customer. Interest income
based on the implicit rate in the lease is recorded to automotive leasing
revenue over time as customers are invoiced on a monthly basis. For the years
ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we recognized $683 million, $369
million and $120 million, respectively, of sales-type leasing revenue and $427
million, $234 million and $87 million, respectively, of sales-type leasing
cost of revenue.

Services and Other Revenue

Services and other revenue consists of non-warranty after-sales vehicle
services and parts, sales of used vehicles, paid Supercharging, retail
merchandise and vehicle insurance revenue.

Revenues related to repair and maintenance services are recognized over time
as services are provided and extended service plans are recognized over the
performance period of the service contract as the obligation represents a
stand-ready obligation to the customer. We sell used vehicles, services,
service plans, vehicle components and merchandise separately and thus use
standalone selling prices as the basis for revenue allocation to the extent
that these items are sold in transactions with other performance obligations.
Payment for used vehicles, services, and merchandise are typically received at
the point when control transfers to the customer or in accordance with payment
terms customary to the business. Payments received for prepaid plans are
refundable upon customer cancellation of the related contracts and are
included within Customer deposits on the consolidated balance sheets. Deferred
revenue related to services and other revenue was immaterial as of December
31, 2022 and 2021.

Energy Generation and Storage Segment

Energy Generation and Storage Sales

Energy generation and storage sales revenue consists of the sale of solar
energy systems and energy storage systems to residential, small commercial,
large commercial and utility grade customers. Sales of solar energy systems to
residential and small scale commercial customers consist of the engineering,
design and installation of the system. Residential and small scale commercial
customers pay the full purchase price of the solar energy system upfront.
Revenue for the design and installation obligation is recognized when control
transfers, which is when we install a solar energy system and the system
passes inspection by the utility or the authority having jurisdiction. Sales
of energy storage systems to residential and small scale commercial customers
consist of the installation of the energy storage system and revenue is
recognized when control transfers, which is when the product has been
delivered or, if we are performing installation, when installed and
commissioned. Payment for such storage systems is made upon invoice or in
accordance with payment terms customary to the business.

For large commercial and utility grade solar energy system and energy storage
system sales which consist of the engineering, design and installation of the
system, customers make milestone payments that are consistent with contract-
specific phases of a project. Revenue from such contracts is recognized over
time using the percentage of completion method based on cost incurred as a
percentage of total estimated contract costs for energy storage system sales
and as a percentage of total estimated labor hours for solar energy system
sales.

56

* * *

In instances where there are multiple performance obligations in a single
contract, we allocate the consideration to the various obligations in the
contract based on the relative standalone selling price method. Standalone
selling prices are estimated based on estimated costs plus margin or by using
market data for comparable products. Costs incurred on the sale of residential
installations before the solar energy systems are completed are included as
work in process within inventory in the consolidated balance sheets. Any fees
that are paid or payable by us to a solar loan lender would be recognized as
an offset against revenue. Costs to obtain a contract relate mainly to
commissions paid to our sales personnel related to the sale of solar energy
systems and energy storage systems. As our contract costs related to solar
energy system and energy storage system sales are typically fulfilled within
one year, the costs to obtain a contract are expensed as incurred.

As part of our solar energy system and energy storage system contracts, we may
provide the customer with performance guarantees that warrant that the
underlying system will meet or exceed the minimum energy generation or energy
performance requirements specified in the contract. In certain instances, we
may receive a bonus payment if the system performs above a specified level.
Conversely, if a solar energy system or energy storage system does not meet
the performance guarantee requirements, we may be required to pay liquidated
damages. Other forms of variable consideration related to our large commercial
and utility grade solar energy system and energy storage system contracts
include variable customer payments that will be made based on our energy
market participation activities. Such guarantees and variable customer
payments represent a form of variable consideration and are estimated at
contract inception at their most likely amount and updated at the end of each
reporting period as additional performance data becomes available. Such
estimates are included in the transaction price only to the extent that it is
probable a significant reversal of revenue will not occur.

We record as deferred revenue any non-refundable amounts that are collected
from customers related to fees charged for prepayments, which is recognized as
revenue ratably over the respective customer contract term. As of December 31,
2022 and 2021, deferred revenue related to such customer payments amounted to
$863 million and $399 million, respectively, mainly due to milestone payments.
Revenue recognized from the deferred revenue balance as of December 31, 2021
and 2020 was $171 million and $93 million for the years ended December 31,
2022 and 2021, respectively. We have elected the practical expedient to omit
disclosure of the amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining
performance obligations for energy generation and storage sales with an
original expected contract length of one year or less and the amount that we
have the right to invoice when that amount corresponds directly with the value
of the performance to date. As of December 31, 2022, total transaction price
allocated to performance obligations that were unsatisfied or partially
unsatisfied for contracts with an original expected length of more than one
year was $210 million. Of this amount, we expect to recognize $12 million in
the next 12 months and the remaining over a period up to 25 years.

We have been providing loans for financing our energy generation products
during the year ended December 31, 2022. We have recorded net financing
receivables on the consolidated balance sheets, of which $24 million is
recorded within Accounts receivable, net, for the current portion and $387
million is recorded within Other non-current assets for the long-term portion,
as of December 31, 2022.

Energy Generation and Storage Leasing

For revenue arrangements where we are the lessor under operating lease
agreements for energy generation and storage products, we record lease revenue
from minimum lease payments, including upfront rebates and incentives earned
from such systems, on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease term,
assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. The difference
between the payments received and the revenue recognized is recorded as
deferred revenue or deferred asset on the consolidated balance sheet.

For solar energy systems where customers purchase electricity from us under
PPAs prior to January 1, 2019, we have determined that these agreements should
be accounted for as operating leases pursuant to ASC 840, Leases. Revenue is
recognized based on the amount of electricity delivered at rates specified
under the contracts, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met.

We record as deferred revenue any amounts that are collected from customers,
including lease prepayments, in excess of revenue recognized, which is
recognized as revenue ratably over the respective customer contract term. As
of December 31, 2022 and 2021, deferred revenue related to such customer
payments amounted to $191 million and $198 million, respectively. Deferred
revenue also includes the portion of rebates and incentives received from
utility companies and various local and state government agencies, which is
recognized as revenue over the lease term. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
deferred revenue from rebates and incentives amounted to $25 million and $27
million, respectively.

We capitalize initial direct costs from the execution of agreements for solar
energy systems and PPAs, which include the referral fees and sales
commissions, as an element of solar energy systems, net, and subsequently
amortize these costs over the term of the related agreements.

57

* * *

Cost of Revenues

Automotive Segment

Automotive Sales

Cost of automotive sales revenue includes direct and indirect materials, labor
costs, manufacturing overhead, including depreciation costs of tooling and
machinery, shipping and logistic costs, vehicle connectivity costs,
allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our
Supercharger network and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Cost of
automotive sales revenues also includes adjustments to warranty expense and
charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its
estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand
inventory in excess of forecasted demand.

Automotive Leasing

Cost of automotive leasing revenue includes the depreciation of operating
lease vehicles, cost of goods sold associated with direct sales-type leases
and warranty expense related to leased vehicles. Cost of automotive leasing
revenue also includes vehicle connectivity costs and allocations of
electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network for
vehicles under our leasing programs.

Services and Other

Costs of services and other revenue includes costs associated with providing
non-warranty after-sales services and parts, costs of paid Supercharging, cost
of used vehicles including refurbishment costs, costs for retail merchandise,
and costs to provide vehicle insurance.

Energy Generation and Storage Segment

Energy Generation and Storage

Cost of energy generation and storage revenue includes direct and indirect
material and labor costs, warehouse rent, freight, warranty expense, other
overhead costs and amortization of certain acquired intangible assets. Cost of
energy generation and storage revenue also includes charges to write down the
carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable
value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of
forecasted demand. In agreements for solar energy systems and PPAs where we
are the lessor, the cost of revenue is primarily comprised of depreciation of
the cost of leased solar energy systems, maintenance costs associated with
those systems and amortization of any initial direct costs.

Research and Development Costs

Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.

Income Taxes

Income taxes are computed using the asset and liability method, under which
deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference
between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using
enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected
to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established when necessary
to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized.

We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions when, despite our
belief that our tax return positions are supportable, we believe that it is
more likely than not that those positions may not be fully sustained upon
review by tax authorities. Accrued interest and penalties related to
unrecognized tax benefits are classified as income tax expense.

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") subjects a U.S. shareholder to tax on
global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") earned by certain foreign
subsidiaries. Under GAAP, we can make an accounting policy election to either
treat taxes due on the GILTI inclusion as a current period expense or factor
such amounts into our measurement of deferred taxes. We elected the deferred
method, under which we recorded the corresponding deferred tax assets and
liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets, currently subject to valuation
allowance.

Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income is comprised of net income and other comprehensive (loss)
income. Other comprehensive (loss) income consists of foreign currency
translation adjustments and unrealized net gains and losses on investments
that have been excluded from the determination of net income.

58

* * *

Stock-Based Compensation

We use the fair value method of accounting for our stock options and RSUs
granted to employees and for our ESPP to measure the cost of employee services
received in exchange for the stock-based awards. The fair value of stock
option awards with only service and/or performance conditions is estimated on
the grant or offering date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The
Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires inputs such as the risk-free
interest rate, expected term and expected volatility. These inputs are
subjective and generally require significant judgment. The fair value of RSUs
is measured on the grant date based on the closing fair market value of our
common stock. The resulting cost is recognized over the period during which an
employee is required to provide service in exchange for the awards, usually
the vesting period, which is generally four years for stock options and RSUs
and six months for the ESPP. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on
a straight-line basis, net of actual forfeitures in the period.

For performance-based awards, stock-based compensation expense is recognized
over the expected performance achievement period of individual performance
milestones when the achievement of each individual performance milestone
becomes probable.

As we accumulate additional employee stock-based awards data over time and as
we incorporate market data related to our common stock, we may calculate
significantly different volatilities and expected lives, which could
materially impact the valuation of our stock-based awards and the stock-based
compensation expense that we will recognize in future periods. Stock-based
compensation expense is recorded in Cost of revenues, Research and development
expense and Selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated
statements of operations.

Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests

Noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests represent
third-party interests in the net assets under certain funding arrangements, or
funds, that we have entered into to finance the costs of solar energy systems
and vehicles under operating leases. We have determined that the contractual
provisions of the funds represent substantive profit-sharing arrangements. We
have further determined that the methodology for calculating the
noncontrolling interest and redeemable noncontrolling interest balances that
reflects the substantive profit-sharing arrangements is a balance sheet
approach using the hypothetical liquidation at book value ("HLBV") method. We,
therefore, determine the amount of the noncontrolling interests and redeemable
noncontrolling interests in the net assets of the funds at each balance sheet
date using the HLBV method, which is presented on the consolidated balance
sheet as noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries and redeemable
noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries. Under the HLBV method, the amounts
reported as noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests
in the consolidated balance sheet represent the amounts the third parties
would hypothetically receive at each balance sheet date under the liquidation
provisions of the funds, assuming the net assets of the funds were liquidated
at their recorded amounts determined in accordance with GAAP and with tax laws
effective at the balance sheet date and distributed to the third parties. The
third parties' interests in the results of operations of the funds are
determined as the difference in the noncontrolling interest and redeemable
noncontrolling interest balances in the consolidated balance sheets between
the start and end of each reporting period, after taking into account any
capital transactions between the funds and the third parties. However, the
redeemable noncontrolling interest balance is at least equal to the redemption
amount. The redeemable noncontrolling interest balance is presented as
temporary equity in the mezzanine section of the consolidated balance sheet
since these third parties have the right to redeem their interests in the
funds for cash or other assets. For certain funds, there may be significant
fluctuations in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and
redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries due to changes in the
liquidation provisions as time-based milestones are reached.

Net Income per Share of Common Stock Attributable to Common Stockholders

Basic net income per share of common stock attributable to common stockholders
is calculated by dividing net income attributable to common stockholders by
the weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding for the period.
Potentially dilutive shares, which are based on the weighted-average shares of
common stock underlying outstanding stock-based awards, warrants and
convertible senior notes using the treasury stock method or the if-converted
method, as applicable, are included when calculating diluted net income per
share of common stock attributable to common stockholders when their effect is
dilutive.

Furthermore, in connection with the offerings of our convertible senior notes,
we entered into convertible note hedges and warrants (see Note 11, Debt).
However, our convertible note hedges are not included when calculating
potentially dilutive shares since their effect is always anti-dilutive. The
strike price on the warrants were below our average share price during the
period and were included in the tables below. Warrants are included in the
weighted-average shares used in computing basic net income per share of common
stock in the period(s) they are settled.

59

* * *

The following table presents the reconciliation of net income attributable to
common stockholders to net income used in computing basic and diluted net
income per share of common stock (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Net income attributable to common stockholders

|

|

$

|

12,556

|

|

|

$

|

5,519

|

|

|

$

|

721

|  
  
Less: Buy-out of noncontrolling interest

|

|

|

(27

|

)

|

|

|

(5

|

)

|

|

|

31

|  
  
Net income used in computing basic net income per share of common stock

|

|

|

12,583

|

|

|

|

5,524

|

|

|

|

690

|  
  
Less: Dilutive convertible debt

|

|

|

(1

|

)

|

|

|

(9

|

)

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Net income used in computing diluted net income per share of common stock

|

|

$

|

12,584

|

|

|

$

|

5,533

|

|

|

$

|

690

|  
  
The following table presents the reconciliation of basic to diluted weighted
average shares used in computing net income per share of common stock
attributable to common stockholders, as adjusted to give effect to the 2022
Stock Split (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Weighted average shares used in computing net income per share of common
stock, basic

|

|

|

3,130

|

|

|

|

2,959

|

|

|

|

2,798

|  
  
Add:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Stock-based awards

|

|

|

310

|

|

|

|

292

|

|

|

|

198

|  
  
Convertible senior notes

|

|

|

3

|

|

|

|

29

|

|

|

|

141

|  
  
Warrants

|

|

|

32

|

|

|

|

106

|

|

|

|

112

|  
  
Weighted average shares used in computing net income per share of common
stock, diluted

|

|

|

3,475

|

|

|

|

3,386

|

|

|

|

3,249

|  
  
The following table presents the potentially dilutive shares that were
excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share of common stock
attributable to common stockholders, because their effect was anti-dilutive,
as adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock Split (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Stock-based awards

|

|

|

4

|

|

|

|

1

|

|

|

|

6

|  
  
Convertible senior notes (1)

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

3

|  
  
(1)

Under the modified retrospective method of adoption of ASU 2020-06, the
dilutive impact of convertible senior notes was calculated using the if-
converted method for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. Certain
convertible senior notes were calculated using the treasury stock method for
the year ended December 31, 2020.

Business Combinations

We account for business acquisitions under ASC 805, Business Combinations. The
total purchase consideration for an acquisition is measured as the fair value
of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities assumed at the
acquisition date. Costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition are
expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets (including intangible assets),
liabilities assumed (including contingent liabilities) and noncontrolling
interests in an acquisition are measured initially at their fair values at the
acquisition date. We recognize goodwill if the fair value of the total
purchase consideration and any noncontrolling interests is in excess of the
net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities
assumed. We recognize a bargain purchase gain within Other (expense) income,
net, in the consolidated statement of operations if the net fair value of the
identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed is in excess of the
fair value of the total purchase consideration and any noncontrolling
interests. We include the results of operations of the acquired business in
the consolidated financial statements beginning on the acquisition date.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or
less at the date of purchase are considered cash equivalents. Our cash
equivalents are primarily comprised of money market funds and certificates of
deposit.

60

* * *

Restricted Cash

We maintain certain cash balances restricted as to withdrawal or use. Our
restricted cash is comprised primarily of cash held to service certain
payments under various secured debt facilities. In addition, restricted cash
includes cash held as collateral for certain permits as well as sales to lease
partners with a resale value guarantee, letters of credit, real estate leases,
deposits held for our insurance services and certain operating leases. We
record restricted cash as other assets in the consolidated balance sheets and
determine current or non-current classification based on the expected duration
of the restriction.

Our total cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, as presented in the
consolidated statements of cash flows, was as follows (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents

|

|

$

|

16,253

|

|

|

$

|

17,576

|

|

|

$

|

19,384

|  
  
Restricted cash included in prepaid expenses and other  
current assets

|

|

|

294

|

|

|

|

345

|

|

|

|

238

|  
  
Restricted cash included in other non-current assets

|

|

|

377

|

|

|

|

223

|

|

|

|

279

|  
  
Total as presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows

|

|

$

|

16,924

|

|

|

$

|

18,144

|

|

|

$

|

19,901

|  
  
Investments

Investments may be comprised of a combination of marketable securities,
including U.S. government securities, corporate debt securities, time deposit,
and certain certificates of deposit, which are all designated as available-
for-sale and reported at estimated fair value, with unrealized gains and
losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income which is included
within stockholders' equity. Available-for-sale marketable securities with
maturities greater than three months at the date of purchase are included in
short-term investments in our consolidated balance sheets. Interest,
dividends, amortization and accretion of purchase premiums and discounts on
these investments are included within Interest income in our consolidated
statements of operations.

The cost of available-for-sale investments sold is based on the specific
identification method. Realized gains and losses on the sale of available-for-
sale investments are recorded in Other (expense) income, net.

We regularly review all of our investments for declines in fair value. The
review includes but is not limited to (i) the consideration of the cause of
the decline, (ii) any currently recorded expected credit losses and (iii) the
creditworthiness of the respective security issuers. The amortized cost basis
of our investments approximates its fair value.

Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Accounts receivable primarily include amounts related to receivables from
financial institutions and leasing companies offering various financing
products to our customers, sales of energy generation and storage products,
sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers and government
rebates already passed through to customers. We provide an allowance against
accounts receivable for the amount we expect to be uncollectible. We write-off
accounts receivable against the allowance when they are deemed uncollectible.

Depending on the day of the week on which the end of a fiscal quarter falls,
our accounts receivable balance may fluctuate as we are waiting for certain
customer payments to clear through our banking institutions and receipts of
payments from our financing partners, which can take up to approximately two
weeks based on the contractual payment terms with such partners. Our accounts
receivable balances associated with our sales of regulatory credits, which are
typically transferred to other manufacturers during the last few days of the
quarter, is dependent on contractual payment terms. Additionally, government
rebates can take up to a year or more to be collected depending on the
customary processing timelines of the specific jurisdictions issuing them.
These various factors may have a significant impact on our accounts receivable
balance from period to period. As of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021,
we had $753 million and $627 million, respectively, of long-term government
rebates receivable in Other non-current assets in our consolidated balance
sheets.

Financing Receivables

We provide financing options to our customers for our automotive and energy
products. Financing receivables are carried at amortized cost, net of
allowance for loan losses. Provisions for loan losses are charged to
operations in amounts sufficient to maintain the allowance for loan losses at
levels considered adequate to cover expected credit losses on the financing
receivables. In determining expected credit losses, we consider our historical
level of credit losses, current economic trends, and reasonable and
supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the future cash flows.

61

* * *

When originating consumer receivables, we review the credit application, the
proposed contract terms, credit bureau information (e.g., FICO score) and
other information. Our evaluation emphasizes the applicant's ability to pay
and creditworthiness focusing on payment, affordability, and applicant credit
history as key considerations. Generally, all customers in this portfolio have
strong creditworthiness at loan origination.

After origination, we review the credit quality of retail financing based on
customer payment activity and aging analysis. For all financing receivables,
we define "past due" as any payment, including principal and interest, which
is at least 31 days past the contractual due date. As of December 31, 2022,
the majority of our financing receivables were at current status with only an
immaterial balance being past due. Additionally, as of December 31, 2022, the
majority of our financing receivables, excluding MyPower notes receivable,
were originated in 2022.

We have customer notes receivable under the legacy MyPower loan program, which
provided residential customers with the option to finance the purchase of a
solar energy system through a 30-year loan and were all originated prior to
year 2018. The outstanding balances, net of any allowance for expected credit
losses, are presented on the consolidated balance sheets as a component of
Prepaid expenses and other current assets for the current portion and as Other
non-current assets for the long-term portion. As of December 31, 2022 and
2021, the total outstanding balance of MyPower customer notes receivable, net
of allowance for expected credit losses, was $280 million and $299 million,
respectively, of which $7 million and $11 million were due in the next 12
months as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As of December 31, 2022
and 2021, the allowance for expected credit losses was $37 million and $41
million, respectively.

Concentration of Risk

Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to a concentration of credit
risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash, accounts
receivable and other finance receivables. Our cash and investments balances
are primarily on deposit at high credit quality financial institutions or
invested in money market funds. These deposits are typically in excess of
insured limits. As of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, no entity
represented 10% or more of our total receivables balance.

Supply Risk

We are dependent on our suppliers, including single source suppliers, and the
inability of these suppliers to deliver necessary components of our products
in a timely manner at prices, quality levels and volumes acceptable to us, or
our inability to efficiently manage these components from these suppliers,
could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial
condition and operating results.

Inventory Valuation

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is
computed using standard cost for vehicles and energy products, which
approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. We record inventory
write-downs for excess or obsolete inventories based upon assumptions about
current and future demand forecasts. If our inventory on-hand is in excess of
our future demand forecast, the excess amounts are written-off.

We also review our inventory to determine whether its carrying value exceeds
the net amount realizable upon the ultimate sale of the inventory. This
requires us to determine the estimated selling price of our vehicles less the
estimated cost to convert the inventory on-hand into a finished product. Once
inventory is written-down, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is
established and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in
the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.

Should our estimates of future selling prices or production costs change,
additional and potentially material write-downs may be required. A small
change in our estimates may result in a material charge to our reported
financial results.

Operating Lease Vehicles

Vehicles that are leased as part of our direct vehicle leasing program are
classified as operating lease vehicles at cost less accumulated depreciation.
We generally depreciate their cost, less residual value, using the straight-
line-method to cost of automotive leasing revenue over the contractual period.
The gross cost of operating lease vehicles as of December 31, 2022 and
December 31, 2021 was $6.08 billion and $5.28 billion, respectively. Operating
lease vehicles on the consolidated balance sheets are presented net of
accumulated depreciation of $1.04 billion and $773 million as of December 31,
2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively.

62

* * *

Digital Assets, Net

We currently account for all digital assets held as indefinite-lived
intangible assets in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles--Goodwill and Other.
We have ownership of and control over our digital assets and we may use third-
party custodial services to secure it. The digital assets are initially
recorded at cost and are subsequently remeasured on the consolidated balance
sheet at cost, net of any impairment losses incurred since acquisition.

We determine the fair value of our digital assets on a nonrecurring basis in
accordance with ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement ("ASC 820"), based on quoted
prices on the active exchange(s) that we have determined is the principal
market for such assets (Level I inputs). We perform an analysis each quarter
to identify whether events or changes in circumstances, principally decreases
in the quoted prices on active exchanges, indicate that it is more likely than
not that our digital assets are impaired. In determining if an impairment has
occurred, we consider the lowest market price of one unit of digital asset
quoted on the active exchange since acquiring the digital asset. When the then
current carrying value of a digital asset exceeds the fair value determined
each quarter, an impairment loss has occurred with respect to those digital
assets in the amount equal to the difference between their carrying values and
the prices determined.

Impairment losses are recognized within Restructuring and other in the
consolidated statements of operations in the period in which the impairment is
identified. Gains are not recorded until realized upon sale(s), at which point
they are presented net of any impairment losses for the same digital assets
held within Restructuring and other. In determining the gain to be recognized
upon sale, we calculate the difference between the sales price and carrying
value of the digital assets sold immediately prior to sale.

See Note 3, Digital Assets, Net, for further information regarding digital
assets.

Solar Energy Systems, Net

We are the lessor of solar energy systems. Solar energy systems are stated at
cost less accumulated depreciation.

Depreciation and amortization is calculated using the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, as follows:

|  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
Solar energy systems in service

|

|

|

|

30 to 35 years  
  
Initial direct costs related to customer  
solar energy system lease acquisition  
costs

|

|

|

|

Lease term (up to 25 years)  
  
Solar energy systems pending interconnection will be depreciated as solar
energy systems in service when they have been interconnected and placed in-
service. Solar energy systems under construction represents systems that are
under installation, which will be depreciated as solar energy systems in
service when they are completed, interconnected and placed in service. Initial
direct costs related to customer solar energy system agreement acquisition
costs are capitalized and amortized over the term of the related customer
agreements.

Property, Plant and Equipment, Net

Property, plant and equipment, net, including leasehold improvements, are
recognized at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is generally
computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
respective assets, as follows:

|  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
Machinery, equipment, vehicles and  
office furniture

|

|

|

|

3 to 15 years  
  
Tooling

|

|

|

|

4 to 7 years  
  
Building and building improvements

|

|

|

|

15 to 30 years  
  
Computer equipment and software

|

|

|

|

3 to 10 years  
  
Leasehold improvements are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the
shorter of their estimated useful lives or the terms of the related leases.

Upon the retirement or sale of our property, plant and equipment, the cost and
associated accumulated depreciation are removed from the consolidated balance
sheet, and the resulting gain or loss is reflected on the consolidated
statement of operations. Maintenance and repair expenditures are expensed as
incurred while major improvements that increase the functionality, output or
expected life of an asset are capitalized and depreciated ratably over the
identified useful life.

Interest expense on outstanding debt is capitalized during the period of
significant capital asset construction. Capitalized interest on construction
in progress is included within Property, plant and equipment, net and is
amortized over the life of the related assets.

63

* * *

Long-Lived Assets Including Acquired Intangible Assets

We review our property, plant and equipment, solar energy systems, long-term
prepayments and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset (or asset group)
may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability by comparing the carrying
amount to the future undiscounted cash flows that the asset is expected to
generate. If the asset is not recoverable, its carrying amount would be
adjusted down to its fair value. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021
and 2020, we have recognized no material impairments of our long-lived assets.

Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives, which range from three to thirty years.

Goodwill

We assess goodwill for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be
impaired, by comparing its carrying value to the reporting unit's fair value.
For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, we did not recognize
any impairment of goodwill.

Capitalization of Software Costs

We capitalize costs incurred in the development of internal use software,
during the application development stage to Property, plant and equipment, net
on the consolidated balance sheets. Costs related to preliminary project
activities and post-implementation activities are expensed as incurred. Such
costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of
three years.

Software development costs incurred in development of software to be sold,
leased, or otherwise marketed, incurred subsequent to the establishment of
technological feasibility and prior to the general availability of the
software are capitalized when they are expected to become significant. Such
costs are amortized over the estimated useful life of the applicable software
once it is made generally available to our customers.

We evaluate the useful lives of these assets on an annual basis, and we test
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that could
impact the recoverability of these assets. For the years ended December 31,
2022, 2021, and 2020, we have recognized no impairments of capitalized
software costs.

Foreign Currency

We determine the functional and reporting currency of each of our
international subsidiaries and their operating divisions based on the primary
currency in which they operate. In cases where the functional currency is not
the U.S. dollar, we recognize a cumulative translation adjustment created by
the different rates we apply to current period income or loss and the balance
sheet. For each subsidiary, we apply the monthly average functional exchange
rate to its monthly income or loss and the month-end functional currency rate
to translate the balance sheet.

Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are a result of the effect of
exchange rate changes on transactions denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency. Transaction gains and losses are recognized in Other
(expense) income, net, in the consolidated statements of operations. For the
years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we recorded a net foreign
currency transaction loss of $89 million, gain of $97 million and loss of $114
million, respectively.

64

* * *

Warranties

We provide a manufacturer's warranty on all new and used vehicles and a
warranty on the installation and components of the energy generation and
storage systems we sell for periods typically between 10 to 25 years. We
accrue a warranty reserve for the products sold by us, which includes our best
estimate of the projected costs to repair or replace items under warranties
and recalls if identified. These estimates are based on actual claims incurred
to date and an estimate of the nature, frequency and costs of future claims.
These estimates are inherently uncertain given our relatively short history of
sales, and changes to our historical or projected warranty experience may
cause material changes to the warranty reserve in the future. The warranty
reserve does not include projected warranty costs associated with our vehicles
subject to operating lease accounting and our solar energy systems under lease
contracts or PPAs, as the costs to repair these warranty claims are expensed
as incurred. The portion of the warranty reserve expected to be incurred
within the next 12 months is included within Accrued liabilities and other,
while the remaining balance is included within Other long-term liabilities on
the consolidated balance sheets. Warranty expense is recorded as a component
of Cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of operations. Due to the
magnitude of our automotive business, accrued warranty balance is primarily
related to our automotive segment. Accrued warranty activity consisted of the
following (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Accrued warranty--beginning of period

|

|

$

|

2,101

|

|

|

$

|

1,468

|

|

|

$

|

1,089

|  
  
Warranty costs incurred

|

|

|

(803

|

)

|

|

|

(525

|

)

|

|

|

(312

|

)  
  
Net changes in liability for pre-existing warranties,  
including expirations and foreign exchange impact

|

|

|

522

|

|

|

|

102

|

|

|

|

66

|  
  
Provision for warranty

|

|

|

1,685

|

|

|

|

1,056

|

|

|

|

625

|  
  
Accrued warranty--end of period

|

|

$

|

3,505

|

|

|

$

|

2,101

|

|

|

$

|

1,468

|  
  
Customer Deposits

Customer deposits primarily consist of cash payments from customers at the
time they place an order or reservation for a vehicle or an energy product and
any additional payments up to the point of delivery or the completion of
installation. Customer deposits also include prepayments on contracts that can
be cancelled without significant penalties, such as vehicle maintenance plans.
Customer deposit amounts vary depending on the vehicle model, the energy
product and the country of delivery. With the exception of a nominal order
fee, customer deposits are fully refundable on vehicles prior to delivery and
fully refundable in the case of an energy generation or storage product prior
to the entry into a purchase agreement or in certain cases for a limited time
thereafter (in accordance with applicable laws). Customer deposits are
included in current liabilities until refunded, forfeited or applied towards
the customer's purchase balance.

Government Assistance Programs and Incentives

Globally, the operation of our business is impacted by various government
programs, incentives, and other arrangements. Government incentives are
recorded in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with their
purpose as a reduction of expense, or an offset to the related capital asset.
The benefit is generally recorded when all conditions attached to the
incentive have been met or are expected to be met and there is reasonable
assurance of their receipt. The government incentives received by us are
immaterial in all periods presented since the adoption of ASU 2021-10.

Gigafactory New York--New York State Investment and Lease

We have a lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with
respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and
development agreement, we are continuing to designate further buildouts at the
facility. We are required to comply with certain covenants, including hiring
and cumulative investment targets. Under the terms of the arrangement, the
SUNY Foundation paid for a majority of the construction costs related to the
manufacturing facility and the acquisition and commissioning of certain
manufacturing equipment; and we are responsible for any construction or
equipment costs in excess of such amount (refer to Note 15, Commitments and
Contingencies). This incentive reduces the related lease costs of the facility
within the Energy generation and storage cost of revenues and operating
expense line items in our consolidated statements of operations.

65

* * *

Gigafactory Shanghai--Land Use Rights and Economic Benefits

We have an agreement with the local government of Shanghai for land use rights
at Gigafactory Shanghai. Under the terms of the arrangement, we are required
to meet a cumulative capital expenditure target and an annual tax revenue
target starting at the end of 2023. In addition, the Shanghai government has
granted to our Gigafactory Shanghai subsidiary certain incentives to be used
in connection with eligible capital investments at Gigafactory Shanghai (refer
to Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies). For the years ended December 31,
2022 and 2021, we received grant funding of $76 million and $6 million,
respectively. These incentives offset the related costs of our facilities and
are recorded as a reduction of the cost of the capital investment within the
Property, plant and equipment, net line item in our consolidated balance
sheets. The incentive therefore reduces the depreciation expense over the
useful lives of the related equipment.

Nevada Tax Incentives

In connection with the construction of Gigafactory Nevada, we entered into
agreements with the State of Nevada and Storey County in Nevada that provide
abatements for specified taxes, discounts to the base tariff energy rates and
transferable tax credits of up to $195 million in consideration of capital
investment and hiring targets that were met at Gigafactory Nevada.

Gigafactory Texas Tax Incentives

In connection with the construction of Gigafactory Texas, we entered into a
20-year agreement with Travis County in Texas pursuant to which we would
receive grant funding equal to 70-80% of property taxes paid by us to Travis
County and a separate 10-year agreement with the Del Valle Independent School
District in Texas pursuant to which a portion of the taxable value of our
property would be capped at a specified amount, in each case subject to our
meeting certain minimum economic development metrics through our construction
and operations at Gigafactory Texas. This incentive is recorded as a reduction
of the related expenses within the Cost of automotive revenues and operating
expense line items of our consolidated statements of operations.

Defined Contribution Plan

We have a 401(k) savings plan in the U.S. that is intended to qualify as a
deferred salary arrangement under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code
and a number of savings plans internationally. Under the 401(k) savings plan,
participating employees may elect to contribute up to 90% of their eligible
compensation, subject to certain limitations. Beginning in January 2022, we
began to match 50% of each employee's contributions up to a maximum of 6%
(capped at $3,000) of the employee's eligible compensation, vested upon one
year of service. We recognized $91 million of expenses related to employer
contributions for the 401(k) savings plan during the year ended December 31,
2022.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted

In October 2021, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU
No. 2021-08, Accounting for Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities from
Contracts with Customers (Topic 805). This ASU requires an acquirer in a
business combination to recognize and measure contract assets and contract
liabilities (deferred revenue) from acquired contracts using the revenue
recognition guidance in Topic 606. At the acquisition date, the acquirer
applies the revenue model as if it had originated the acquired contracts. The
ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2022,
including interim periods within those fiscal years. Adoption of the ASU
should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is also permitted, including
adoption in an interim period. If early adopted, the amendments are applied
retrospectively to all business combinations for which the acquisition date
occurred during the fiscal year of adoption. This ASU is currently not
expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In March 2022, the FASB issued ASU 2022-02, Troubled Debt Restructurings and
Vintage Disclosures. This ASU eliminates the accounting guidance for troubled
debt restructurings by creditors that have adopted ASU 2016-13, Measurement of
Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which we adopted on January 1, 2020.
This ASU also enhances the disclosure requirements for certain loan
refinancing and restructurings by creditors when a borrower is experiencing
financial difficulty. In addition, the ASU amends the guidance on vintage
disclosures to require entities to disclose current period gross write-offs by
year of origination for financing receivables and net investments in leases
within the scope of ASC 326-20. The ASU is effective for annual periods
beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those
fiscal years. Adoption of the ASU would be applied prospectively. Early
adoption is also permitted, including adoption in an interim period. This ASU
is currently not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated
financial statements.

On August 16, 2022, the IRA was enacted into law and is effective for taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2022. The IRA includes multiple incentives
to promote clean energy, electric vehicles, battery and energy storage
manufacture or purchase, in addition to a new corporate alternative minimum
tax of 15% on adjusted financial statement income of corporations with profits
greater than $1 billion. These measures may materially affect our consolidated
financial statements, and we will continue to evaluate the applicability and
effect of the IRA as more guidance is issued.

66

* * *

Recently adopted accounting pronouncements

In December 2022, the FASB issued ASU No. 2022-06, Deferral of the Sunset Date
of Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848). Topic 848 provides optional expedients
and exceptions for applying GAAP to transactions affected by reference rate
(e.g., LIBOR) reform if certain criteria are met, for a limited period of time
to ease the potential burden in accounting for (or recognizing the effects of)
reference rate reform on financial reporting. The ASU deferred the sunset date
of Topic 848 from December 31, 2022 to December 31, 2024. The ASU is effective
as of December 21, 2022 through December 31, 2024. We continue to evaluate
transactions or contract modifications occurring as a result of reference rate
reform and determine whether to apply the optional guidance on an ongoing
basis. We adopted ASU 2022-06 during 2022. The ASU has not and is currently
not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements.

In November 2021, the FASB issued ASU No. 2021-10, Government Assistance
(Topic 832). This ASU requires business entities to disclose information about
government assistance they receive if the transactions were accounted for by
analogy to either a grant or a contribution accounting model. The disclosure
requirements include the nature of the transaction and the related accounting
policy used, the line items on the balance sheets and statements of operations
that are affected and the amounts applicable to each financial statement line
item and the significant terms and conditions of the transactions. The ASU is
effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2021. The disclosure
requirements can be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all
transactions in the scope of the amendments that are reflected in the
financial statements at the date of initial application and new transactions
that are entered into after the date of initial application. We adopted the
ASU prospectively on January 1, 2022. Adoption of this ASU did not have a
material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

ASU 2020-06

In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, Accounting for Convertible
Instruments and Contracts in an Entity's Own Equity. The ASU simplifies the
accounting for convertible instruments by removing certain separation models
in ASC 470-20, Debt--Debt with Conversion and Other Options, for convertible
instruments. The ASU updates the guidance on certain embedded conversion
features that are not required to be accounted for as derivatives under Topic
815, Derivatives and Hedging, or that do not result in substantial premiums
accounted for as paid-in capital, such that those features are no longer
required to be separated from the host contract. The convertible debt
instruments will be accounted for as a single liability measured at amortized
cost. This will also result in the interest expense recognized for convertible
debt instruments to be typically closer to the coupon interest rate when
applying the guidance in Topic 835, Interest. Further, the ASU made amendments
to the EPS guidance in Topic 260 for convertible debt instruments, the most
significant impact of which is requiring the use of the if-converted method
for diluted EPS calculation, and no longer allowing the net share settlement
method. The ASU also made revisions to Topic 815-40, which provides guidance
on how an entity must determine whether a contract qualifies for a scope
exception from derivative accounting. The amendments to Topic 815-40 change
the scope of contracts that are recognized as assets or liabilities.

On January 1, 2021, we adopted the ASU using the modified retrospective
method. We recognized a cumulative effect of initially applying the ASU as an
adjustment to the January 1, 2021 opening balance of accumulated deficit. Due
to the recombination of the equity conversion component of our convertible
debt remaining outstanding, additional paid in capital and convertible senior
notes (mezzanine equity) were reduced. The removal of the remaining debt
discounts recorded for this previous separation had the effect of increasing
our net debt balance and the reduction of property, plant and equipment was
related to previously capitalized interest. The prior period consolidated
financial statements have not been retrospectively adjusted and continue to be
reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.

Accordingly, the cumulative effect of the changes made on our January 1, 2021
consolidated balance sheet for the adoption of the ASU was as follows (in
millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Balances at  
December 31, 2020

|

|

|

Adjustments from  
Adoption of ASU 2020-06

|

|

|

Balances at  
January 1, 2021

|  
  
Assets

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Property, plant and equipment, net

|

|

$

|

12,747

|

|

|

$

|

(45

|

)

|

|

$

|

12,702

|  
  
Liabilities

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Current portion of debt and finance leases

|

|

|

2,132

|

|

|

|

50

|

|

|

|

2,182

|  
  
Debt and finance leases, net of current portion

|

|

|

9,556

|

|

|

|

219

|

|

|

|

9,775

|  
  
Mezzanine equity

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Convertible senior notes

|

|

|

51

|

|

|

|

(51

|

)

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Equity

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Additional paid-in capital

|

|

|

27,260

|

|

|

|

(474

|

)

|

|

|

26,786

|  
  
Accumulated deficit

|

|

|

(5,399

|

)

|

|

|

211

|

|

|

|

(5,188

|

)  
  
67

* * *

Note 3 - Digital Assets, Net

During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, we purchased and/or
received an immaterial amount and $1.50 billion, respectively, of digital
assets. As of December 31, 2022, we have converted approximately 75% of our
purchases into fiat currency. During the years ended December 31, 2022 and
2021, we recorded $204 million and $101 million of impairment losses on such
digital assets, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2022 and
2021, we realized gains of $64 million and $128 million, respectively, in
connection with converting our holdings of digital assets into fiat currency.
The gains are presented net of impairment losses in Restructuring and other in
the consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
the carrying value of our digital assets held was $184 million and $1.26
billion, which reflects cumulative impairments of $204 million and $101
million, each period, respectively. The fair market value of such digital
assets held as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 was $191 million and $1.99
billion, respectively.

Note 4 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Goodwill decreased $6 million within the automotive segment from $200 million
as of December 31, 2021 to $194 million as of December 31, 2022. There were no
accumulated impairment losses as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.

The net carrying value of our intangible assets decreased from $257 million as
of December 31, 2021 to $215 million as of December 31, 2022 mainly from
amortization.

Note 5 - Fair Value of Financial Instruments

ASC 820 states that fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a
market-based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that
market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability. The three-
tiered fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes which inputs should be used in
measuring fair value, is comprised of: (Level I) observable inputs such as
quoted prices in active markets; (Level II) inputs other than quoted prices in
active markets that are observable either directly or indirectly and (Level
III) unobservable inputs for which there is little or no market data. The fair
value hierarchy requires the use of observable market data when available in
determining fair value. Our assets and liabilities that were measured at fair
value on a recurring basis were as follows (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31, 2022

|

|

|

December 31, 2021

|  
  
|

|

Fair Value

|

|

|

Level I

|

|

|

Level II

|

|

|

Level III

|

|

|

Fair Value

|

|

|

Level I

|

|

|

Level II

|

|

|

Level III

|  
  
Money market funds

|

|

$

|

2,188

|

|

|

$

|

2,188

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

9,548

|

|

|

$

|

9,548

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|  
  
U.S. government securities

|

|

|

894

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

894

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Corporate debt securities

|

|

|

885

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

885

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

131

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

131

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Certificates of deposit and time deposits

|

|

|

4,253

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

4,253

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Interest rate swap liabilities

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

31

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

31

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Total

|

|

$

|

8,220

|

|

|

$

|

2,188

|

|

|

$

|

6,032

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

9,710

|

|

|

$

|

9,548

|

|

|

$

|

162

|

|

|

$

|

--

|  
  
All of our money market funds were classified within Level I of the fair value
hierarchy because they were valued using quoted prices in active markets. Our
U.S. government securities, certificates of deposit, time deposits and
corporate debt securities are classified within Level II of the fair value
hierarchy and the market approach was used to determine fair value of these
investments. Our interest rate swaps were classified within Level II of the
fair value hierarchy because they were valued using alternative pricing
sources or models that utilized market observable inputs, including current
and forward interest rates.

68

* * *

Our cash, cash equivalents and investments classified by security type as of
December 31, 2022 and 2021 consisted of the following (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31, 2022

|  
  
|

|

Adjusted Cost

|

|

|

Gross Unrealized Gains

|

|

|

Gross Unrealized Losses

|

|

|

Fair Value

|

|

|

Cash and Cash Equivalents

|

|

|

Short-Term Investments

|  
  
Cash

|

|

$

|

13,965

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

13,965

|

|

|

$

|

13,965

|

|

|

$

|

--

|  
  
Money market funds

|

|

|

2,188

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

2,188

|

|

|

|

2,188

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
U.S. government securities

|

|

|

897

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(3

|

)

|

|

|

894

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

894

|  
  
Corporate debt securities

|

|

|

907

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(22

|

)

|

|

|

885

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

885

|  
  
Certificates of deposit and time deposits

|

|

|

4,252

|

|

|

|

1

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

4,253

|

|

|

|

100

|

|

|

|

4,153

|  
  
Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments

|

|

$

|

22,209

|

|

|

$

|

1

|

|

|

$

|

(25

|

)

|

|

$

|

22,185

|

|

|

$

|

16,253

|

|

|

$

|

5,932

|  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31, 2021

|  
  
|

|

Adjusted Cost

|

|

|

Gross Unrealized Gains

|

|

|

Gross Unrealized Losses

|

|

|

Fair Value

|

|

|

Cash and Cash Equivalents

|

|

|

Short-Term Investments

|  
  
Cash

|

|

$

|

8,028

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

8,028

|

|

|

$

|

8,028

|

|

|

$

|

--

|  
  
Money market funds

|

|

|

9,548

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

9,548

|

|

|

|

9,548

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Corporate debt securities

|

|

|

132

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(1

|

)

|

|

|

131

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

131

|  
  
Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments

|

|

$

|

17,708

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

(1

|

)

|

|

$

|

17,707

|

|

|

$

|

17,576

|

|

|

$

|

131

|  
  
We record gross realized gains, losses and credit losses as a component of
Other (expense) income, net in the consolidated statements of operations. For
the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, we did not recognize any material
gross realized gains, losses or credit losses. The ending allowance balances
for credit losses were immaterial as of December 31, 2022 and December 31,
2021. We have determined that the gross unrealized losses on our investments
as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 were temporary in nature.

The following table summarizes the fair value of our investments by stated
contractual maturities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions):

|  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
Due in 1 year or less

|

|

$

|

5,135

|  
  
Due in 1 year through 5 years

|

|

|

636

|  
  
Due in 5 years through 10 years

|

|

|

161

|  
  
Total

|

|

$

|

5,932

|  
  
Disclosure of Fair Values

Our financial instruments that are not re-measured at fair value include
accounts receivable, financing receivables, accounts payable, accrued
liabilities, customer deposits and debt. The carrying values of these
financial instruments approximate their fair values, other than our 2.375%
Convertible Senior Notes due in 2022 ("2022 Notes") and 2.00% Convertible
Senior Notes due in 2024 ("2024 Notes") (collectively referred to as
"Convertible Senior Notes" below).

We estimate the fair value of the Convertible Senior Notes using commonly
accepted valuation methodologies and market-based risk measurements that are
indirectly observable, such as credit risk (Level II). The following table
presents the estimated fair values and the carrying values (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31, 2022

|

|

|

December 31, 2021

|  
  
|

|

Carrying Value

|

|

|

Fair Value

|

|

|

Carrying Value

|

|

|

Fair Value

|  
  
Convertible Senior Notes (1)

|

|

$

|

37

|

|

|

$

|

223

|

|

|

$

|

119

|

|

|

$

|

2,016

|  
  
(1)

The 2022 Notes were fully settled in the first quarter of 2022.

69

* * *

Note 6 - Inventory

Our inventory consisted of the following (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Raw materials

|

|

$

|

6,137

|

|

|

$

|

2,816

|  
  
Work in process

|

|

|

2,385

|

|

|

|

1,089

|  
  
Finished goods (1)

|

|

|

3,475

|

|

|

|

1,277

|  
  
Service parts

|

|

|

842

|

|

|

|

575

|  
  
Total

|

|

$

|

12,839

|

|

|

$

|

5,757

|  
  
(1)

Finished goods inventory includes vehicles in transit to fulfill customer
orders, new vehicles available for sale, used vehicles and energy products
available for sale.

For solar energy systems, we commence transferring component parts from
inventory to construction in progress, a component of solar energy systems,
once a lease or PPA contract with a customer has been executed and
installation has been initiated. Additional costs incurred on the leased solar
energy systems, including labor and overhead, are recorded within solar energy
systems under construction.

We write-down inventory for any excess or obsolete inventories or when we
believe that the net realizable value of inventories is less than the carrying
value. During the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 we recorded
write-downs of $144 million, $106 million and $145 million, respectively, in
Cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of operations.

Note 7 - Solar Energy Systems, Net

Our solar energy systems, net, consisted of the following (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Solar energy systems in service

|

|

$

|

6,785

|

|

|

$

|

6,809

|  
  
Initial direct costs related to customer solar energy  
system lease acquisition costs

|

|

|

104

|

|

|

|

104

|  
  
|

|

|

6,889

|

|

|

|

6,913

|  
  
Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization (1)

|

|

|

(1,418

|

)

|

|

|

(1,187

|

)  
  
|

|

|

5,471

|

|

|

|

5,726

|  
  
Solar energy systems under construction

|

|

|

2

|

|

|

|

18

|  
  
Solar energy systems pending interconnection

|

|

|

16

|

|

|

|

21

|  
  
Solar energy systems, net (2)

|

|

$

|

5,489

|

|

|

$

|

5,765

|  
  
(1)

Depreciation and amortization expense during the years ended December 31,
2022, 2021 and 2020 was $235 million, $236 million and $232 million,
respectively.

(2)

As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, there were $802 million and $1.02 billion,
respectively, of gross solar energy systems under lease pass-through fund
arrangements with accumulated depreciation of $148 million and $165 million,
respectively.

Note 8 - Property, Plant and Equipment, Net

Our property, plant and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in
millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Machinery, equipment, vehicles and office furniture

|

|

$

|

13,558

|

|

|

$

|

9,953

|  
  
Tooling

|

|

|

2,579

|

|

|

|

2,188

|  
  
Leasehold improvements

|

|

|

2,366

|

|

|

|

1,826

|  
  
Land and buildings

|

|

|

7,751

|

|

|

|

4,675

|  
  
Computer equipment, hardware and software

|

|

|

2,072

|

|

|

|

1,414

|  
  
Construction in progress

|

|

|

4,263

|

|

|

|

5,559

|  
  
|

|

|

32,589

|

|

|

|

25,615

|  
  
Less: Accumulated depreciation

|

|

|

(9,041

|

)

|

|

|

(6,731

|

)  
  
Total

|

|

$

|

23,548

|

|

|

$

|

18,884

|  
  
70

* * *

Construction in progress is primarily comprised of construction of Gigafactory
Texas and Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg, and equipment and tooling related to
the manufacturing of our products. Completed assets are transferred to their
respective asset classes and depreciation begins when an asset is ready for
its intended use. Interest on outstanding debt is capitalized during periods
of significant capital asset construction and amortized over the useful lives
of the related assets. During the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020, we capitalized interest of an immaterial amount, $53 million and $48
million, respectively.

Depreciation expense during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
was $2.42 billion, $1.91 billion and $1.57 billion, respectively.

Panasonic has partnered with us on Gigafactory Nevada with investments in the
production equipment that it uses to manufacture and supply us with battery
cells. Under our arrangement with Panasonic, we plan to purchase the full
output from their production equipment at negotiated prices. As the terms of
the arrangement convey a finance lease under ASC 842, we account for their
production equipment as leased assets when production commences. We account
for each lease and any non-lease components associated with that lease as a
single lease component for all asset classes, except production equipment
classes embedded in supply agreements. This results in us recording the cost
of their production equipment within Property, plant and equipment, net, on
the consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding liability recorded to
debt and finance leases. Depreciation on Panasonic production equipment is
computed using the units-of-production method whereby capitalized costs are
amortized over the total estimated productive life of the respective assets.
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, we had cumulatively capitalized gross costs
of $2.01 billion and $1.98 billion, respectively, on the consolidated balance
sheets in relation to the production equipment under our Panasonic
arrangement.

Note 9 - Accrued Liabilities and Other

Our accrued liabilities and other current liabilities consisted of the
following (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Accrued purchases (1)

|

|

$

|

2,747

|

|

|

$

|

2,045

|  
  
Taxes payable (2)

|

|

|

1,235

|

|

|

|

1,122

|  
  
Payroll and related costs

|

|

|

1,026

|

|

|

|

906

|  
  
Accrued warranty reserve, current portion

|

|

|

1,025

|

|

|

|

703

|  
  
Sales return reserve, current portion

|

|

|

270

|

|

|

|

265

|  
  
Operating lease liabilities, current portion

|

|

|

485

|

|

|

|

368

|  
  
Other current liabilities

|

|

|

354

|

|

|

|

310

|  
  
Total

|

|

$

|

7,142

|

|

|

$

|

5,719

|  
  
(1)

Accrued purchases primarily reflects receipts of goods and services for which
we had not yet been invoiced. As we are invoiced for these goods and services,
this balance will reduce and accounts payable will increase. For the year
ended December 31, 2022, accrued purchases increased as we continued
construction and expansion of our facilities and operations.

(2)

Taxes payable includes value added tax, sales tax, property tax, use tax and
income tax payables.

Note 10 - Other Long-Term Liabilities

Our other long-term liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Operating lease liabilities

|

|

$

|

2,164

|

|

|

$

|

1,671

|  
  
Accrued warranty reserve

|

|

|

2,480

|

|

|

|

1,398

|  
  
Sales return reserve

|

|

|

51

|

|

|

|

133

|  
  
Deferred tax liability

|

|

|

82

|

|

|

|

24

|  
  
Other non-current liabilities

|

|

|

553

|

|

|

|

320

|  
  
Total other long-term liabilities

|

|

$

|

5,330

|

|

|

$

|

3,546

|  
  
71

* * *

Note 11 - Debt

The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31,
2022 (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Unpaid

|

|

|

|

Unused

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net Carrying Value

|

|

|

|

Principal

|

|

|

|

Committed

|

|

|

|

Contractual

|

|

Contractual  
  
|

|

Current

|

|

|

|

Long-Term

|

|

|

|

Balance

|

|

|

|

Amount (1)

|

|

|

|

Interest Rates

|

|

Maturity Date  
  
Recourse debt:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2024 Notes

|

|

$

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

37

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

37

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

2.00

|

%

|

|

May 2024  
  
Credit Agreement

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

2,266

|

|

|

|

Not applicable

|

|

July 2023  
  
Solar Bonds

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

7

|

|

|

|

|

|

7

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

4.70-5.75

|

%

|

|

March 2025 \- January 2031  
  
Total recourse debt

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

44

|

|

|

|

|

|

44

|

|

|

|

|

|

2,266

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Non-recourse debt:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Automotive Asset-backed Notes

|

|

|

|

984

|

|

|

|

|

|

613

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,603

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

0.36-4.64

|

%

|

|

December 2023-September 2025  
  
Solar Asset-backed Notes

|

|

|

|

4

|

|

|

|

|

|

13

|

|

|

|

|

|

17

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

4.80

|

%

|

|

December 2026  
  
Cash Equity Debt

|

|

|

|

28

|

|

|

|

|

|

359

|

|

|

|

|

|

397

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

5.25-5.81

|

%

|

|

July 2033-January 2035  
  
Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

151

|

|

|

|

Not applicable

|

|

September 2024  
  
Total non-recourse debt

|

|

|

|

1,016

|

|

|

|

|

|

985

|

|

|

|

|

|

2,017

|

|

|

|

|

|

151

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Total debt

|

|

|

|

1,016

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,029

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

2,061

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

2,417

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Finance leases

|

|

|

|

486

|

|

|

|

|

|

568

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Total debt and finance leases

|

|

$

|

|

1,502

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

1,597

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31,
2021 (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Unpaid

|

|

|

|

Unused

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

Net Carrying Value

|

|

|

|

Principal

|

|

|

|

Committed

|

|

|

|

Contractual

|

|

Contractual  
  
|

|

Current

|

|

|

|

Long-Term

|

|

|

|

Balance

|

|

|

|

Amount (1)

|

|

|

|

Interest Rates

|

|

Maturity Date  
  
Recourse debt:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
2022 Notes

|

|

$

|

|

29

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

29

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

2.375

|

%

|

|

March 2022  
  
2024 Notes

|

|

|

|

1

|

|

|

|

|

|

89

|

|

|

|

|

|

91

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

2.00

|

%

|

|

May 2024  
  
Credit Agreement

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,250

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,250

|

|

|

|

|

|

920

|

|

|

|

3.25

|

%

|

|

July 2023  
  
Solar Bonds

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

|

|

7

|

|

|

|

|

|

7

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

4.00-5.75

|

%

|

|

January 2022-January 2031  
  
Total recourse debt

|

|

|

|

30

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,346

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,377

|

|

|

|

|

|

920

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Non-recourse debt:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Automotive Asset-backed Notes

|

|

|

|

1,007

|

|

|

|

|

|

1,706

|

|

|

|

|

|

2,723

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

0.12-5.48

|

%

|

|

September 2022-September 2025  
  
Solar Asset and Loan-backed Notes

|

|

|

|

27

|

|

|

|

|

|

800

|

|

|

|

|

|

844

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

2.87-7.74

|

%

|

|

September 2024-September 2049  
  
Cash Equity Debt

|

|

|

|

24

|

|

|

|

|

|

388

|

|

|

|

|

|

422

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

5.25-5.81

|

%

|

|

July 2033-January 2035  
  
Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

167

|

|

|

|

Not applicable

|

|

September 2023  
  
Other Loans

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

|

|

14

|

|

|

|

|

|

14

|

|

|

|

|

|

21

|

|

|

|

5.10

|

%

|

|

February 2033  
  
Total non-recourse debt

|

|

|

|

1,058

|

|

|

|

|

|

2,908

|

|

|

|

|

|

4,003

|

|

|

|

|

|

188

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Total debt

|

|

|

|

1,088

|

|

|

|

|

|

4,254

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

5,380

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

1,108

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Finance leases

|

|

|

|

501

|

|

|

|

|

|

991

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Total debt and finance leases

|

|

$

|

|

1,589

|

|

|

|

$

|

|

5,245

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
(1)

There are no restrictions on draw-down or use for general corporate purposes
with respect to any available committed funds under our credit facilities,
except certain specified conditions prior to draw-down, including pledging to
our lenders sufficient amounts of qualified receivables, inventories, leased
vehicles and our interests in those leases or various other assets and as may
be described below.

Recourse debt refers to debt that is recourse to our general assets. Non-
recourse debt refers to debt that is recourse to only assets of our
subsidiaries. The differences between the unpaid principal balances and the
net carrying values are due to debt discounts or deferred financing costs. As
of December 31, 2022, we were in material compliance with all financial debt
covenants.

2022 Notes, Bond Hedges and Warrant Transactions

During the first quarter of 2022, the remaining $29 million in aggregate
principal amount of the 2022 Notes was converted and settled in cash for their
par amount, and 1.2 million shares of our common stock were issued for the
applicable conversion premium, as adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock
Split. The note hedges we entered into in connection with the issuance of the
2022 Notes were automatically settled with the respective conversions of the
2022 Notes, resulting in the receipt of 1.2 million shares of our common stock
during the same period, as adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock Split.
Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2022, we fully settled the
warrants entered into in connection with the issuance of the 2022 Notes,
resulting in the issuance of 37.0 million shares of our common stock, as
adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock Split.

2024 Notes, Bond Hedges and Warrant Transactions

In May 2019, we issued $1.84 billion in aggregate principal amount of our 2024
Notes in a public offering. The net proceeds from the issuance, after
deducting transaction costs, were $1.82 billion.

72

* * *

As adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock Split, each $1,000 of principal
of the 2024 Notes is now convertible into 48.4140 shares of our common stock,
which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $20.66 per share,
subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. Holders of the
2024 Notes may convert, at their option, on or after February 15, 2024.
Further, holders of the 2024 Notes may convert, at their option, prior to
February 15, 2024 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any
calendar quarter commencing after September 30, 2019 (and only during such
calendar quarter), if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at
least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30
consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of immediately
preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion
price on each trading day; (2) during the five-business day period after any
five-consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per $1,000
principal amount of the 2024 Notes for each trading day of such period is less
than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock
and the conversion rate on each such trading day, or (3) if specified
corporate events occur. Upon conversion, the 2024 Notes will be settled in
cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election. If
a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date, holders of the 2024
Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 2024 Notes for
cash at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus any
accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, if specific corporate events occur
prior to the maturity date, we would increase the conversion rate for a holder
who elects to convert its 2024 Notes in connection with such an event in
certain circumstances. Early conversion of notes which are scheduled to settle
in the following quarter are classified as current in our consolidated balance
sheets.

In connection with the offering of the 2024 Notes, we entered into convertible
note hedge transactions whereby we had the option to purchase 89.1 million
shares of our common stock at a price of approximately $20.66 per share, as
adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock Split. The cost of the convertible
note hedge transactions was $476 million. In addition, we sold warrants
whereby the holders of the warrants had the option to purchase 89.1 million
shares of our common stock at a price of approximately $40.50 per share, as
adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock Split. We received $174 million in
cash proceeds from the sale of these warrants. Taken together, the purchase of
the convertible note hedges and the sale of the warrants were intended to
effectively increase the overall conversion price from approximately $20.66 to
approximately $40.50 per share. As these transactions meet certain accounting
criteria, the convertible note hedges and warrants were recorded in
stockholders' equity and were not accounted for as derivatives. The net cost
incurred in connection with the convertible note hedge and warrant
transactions was recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital on the
consolidated balance sheet.

The closing price of our common stock exceeded 130% of the applicable
conversion price on at least 20 of the last 30 consecutive trading days of
each quarter in 2022, causing the 2024 Notes to be convertible by their
holders in the subsequent quarter. During the year ended December 31, 2022,
$54 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Notes was converted and
settled in cash for their par amount, and 2.4 million shares of our common
stock were issued for the applicable conversion premium, as adjusted to give
effect to the 2022 Stock Split. The note hedges we entered into in connection
with the issuance of the 2024 Notes were automatically settled with the
respective conversions of the 2024 Notes, resulting in the receipt of 2.4
million shares of our common stock during the same period, as adjusted to give
effect to the 2022 Stock Split. As of December 31, 2022, the if-converted
value of the notes exceeds the outstanding principal amount by $186 million.

Credit Agreement

In June 2015, we entered into a senior asset-based revolving credit agreement
(as amended from time to time, the "Credit Agreement") with a syndicate of
banks. Borrowed funds bear interest, at our option, at an annual rate of (a)
1% plus LIBOR or (b) the highest of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%,
(ii) the lenders' "prime rate" or (iii) 1% plus LIBOR. The fee for undrawn
amounts is 0.25% per annum. The Credit Agreement is secured by certain of our
accounts receivable, inventory and equipment. Availability under the Credit
Agreement is based on the value of such assets, as reduced by certain
reserves.

In January 2023, we entered into a 5-year senior unsecured revolving credit
facility (the "RCF Credit Agreement") with a syndicate of banks to replace the
existing Credit Agreement, which was terminated. The RCF Credit Agreement
contains two optional one-year extensions and has a total commitment of up to
$5.00 billion, which could be increased up to $7.00 billion under certain
circumstances. The underlying borrowings may be used for general corporate
purposes. Borrowed funds accrue interest at a variable rate equal to: (i) for
dollar-denominated loans, at our election, (a) Term SOFR (the forward-looking
secured overnight financing rate) plus 0.10%, or (b) an alternate base rate;
(ii) for loans denominated in pounds sterling, SONIA (the sterling overnight
index average reference rate); or (iii) for loans denominated in euros, an
adjusted EURIBOR (euro interbank offered rate); in each case, plus an
applicable margin. The applicable margin will be based on the rating assigned
to our senior, unsecured long-term indebtedness (the "Credit Rating") from
time to time. The fee for undrawn amounts is variable based on the Credit
Rating and is currently 0.15% per annum.

73

* * *

Automotive Asset-backed Notes

From time to time, we transfer receivables or beneficial interests related to
certain leased vehicles into special purpose entities ("SPEs") and issue
Automotive Asset-backed Notes, backed by these automotive assets to investors.
The SPEs are consolidated in the financial statements. The cash flows
generated by these automotive assets are used to service the principal and
interest payments on the Automotive Asset-backed Notes and satisfy the SPEs'
expenses, and any remaining cash is distributed to the owners of the SPEs. We
recognize revenue earned from the associated customer lease contracts in
accordance with our revenue recognition policy. The SPEs' assets and cash
flows are not available to our other creditors, and the creditors of the SPEs,
including the Automotive Asset-backed Note holders, have no recourse to our
other assets.

Solar Asset and Loan-backed Notes

Our subsidiaries pooled and transferred qualifying solar energy systems and
the associated customer contracts, our interests in certain financing funds or
certain MyPower customer notes receivable into SPEs and issued Solar Asset and
Loan-backed Notes backed by these solar assets, interests to investors or
MyPower customer notes receivable. The SPEs are wholly owned by us and are
consolidated in the financial statements. The cash flows generated by these
solar assets and notes receivable, or distributed by the underlying financing
funds to certain SPEs are used to service the principal and interest payments
on the Solar Asset and Loan-backed Notes and satisfy the SPEs' expenses, and
any remaining cash is distributed to us. The SPEs' assets and cash flows are
not available to our other creditors, and the creditors of the SPEs, including
the Solar Asset and Loan-backed Note holders, have no recourse to our other
assets. We contracted with certain SPEs to provide operations & maintenance
and administrative services for the solar energy systems. As of December 31,
2022, solar assets pledged as collateral for Solar Asset and Loan-backed Notes
had a carrying value of $69 million and are included within Solar energy
systems, net, on the consolidated balance sheet.

During the year ended December 31, 2022, we early repaid $819 million in
aggregate principal of the Solar Asset and Loan-backed Notes and recorded an
extinguishment of debt charge of $24 million related to the early repayments
in Interest expense in the consolidated statement of operations.

Cash Equity Debt

In connection with the cash equity financing deals closed in 2016, our
subsidiaries issued $502 million in aggregate principal amount of debt that
bears interest at fixed rates. This debt is secured by, among other things,
our interests in certain financing funds and is non-recourse to our other
assets.

Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities

Our subsidiaries have entered into various credit agreements for borrowings
secured by our interests in certain vehicle leases. These facilities are non-
recourse to our other assets.

Pledged Assets

As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, we had pledged or restricted $2.02 billion
and $5.25 billion of our assets (consisting principally of restricted cash,
receivables, inventory, solar energy systems, operating lease vehicles,
property and equipment and equity interests in certain SPEs) as collateral for
our outstanding debt.

Schedule of Principal Maturities of Debt

The future scheduled principal maturities of debt as of December 31, 2022 were
as follows (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Recourse debt

|

|

|

Non-recourse debt

|

|

|

Total

|  
  
2023

|

|

$

|

0

|

|

|

$

|

1,020

|

|

|

$

|

1,020

|  
  
2024

|

|

|

37

|

|

|

|

648

|

|

|

|

685

|  
  
2025

|

|

|

4

|

|

|

|

35

|

|

|

|

39

|  
  
2026

|

|

|

0

|

|

|

|

35

|

|

|

|

35

|  
  
2027

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

25

|

|

|

|

25

|  
  
Thereafter

|

|

|

3

|

|

|

|

254

|

|

|

|

257

|  
  
Total

|

|

$

|

44

|

|

|

$

|

2,017

|

|

|

$

|

2,061

|  
  
Note 12 - Leases

We have entered into various operating and finance lease agreements for
certain of our offices, manufacturing and warehouse facilities, retail and
service locations, equipment, vehicles, and solar energy systems, worldwide.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease, or contains a lease, at inception
and record the leases in our financial statements upon lease commencement,
which is the date when the underlying asset is made available for use by the
lessor.

74

* * *

We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, and have elected
to utilize the practical expedient to account for lease and non-lease
components together as a single combined lease component, from both a lessee
and lessor perspective with the exception of direct sales-type leases and
production equipment classes embedded in supply agreements. From a lessor
perspective, the timing and pattern of transfer are the same for the non-lease
components and associated lease component and, the lease component, if
accounted for separately, would be classified as an operating lease.

We have elected not to present short-term leases on the consolidated balance
sheet as these leases have a lease term of 12 months or less at lease
inception and do not contain purchase options or renewal terms that we are
reasonably certain to exercise. All other lease assets and lease liabilities
are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease
term at commencement date. Because most of our leases do not provide an
implicit rate of return, we used our incremental borrowing rate based on the
information available at lease commencement date in determining the present
value of lease payments.

Our leases, where we are the lessee, often include options to extend the lease
term for up to 10 years. Some of our leases also include options to terminate
the lease prior to the end of the agreed upon lease term. For purposes of
calculating lease liabilities, lease terms include options to extend or
terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such
options.

Lease expense for operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over
the lease term as cost of revenues or operating expenses depending on the
nature of the leased asset. Certain operating leases provide for annual
increases to lease payments based on an index or rate. We calculate the
present value of future lease payments based on the index or rate at the lease
commencement date for new leases. Differences between the calculated lease
payment and actual payment are expensed as incurred. Amortization of finance
lease assets is recognized over the lease term as cost of revenues or
operating expenses depending on the nature of the leased asset. Interest
expense on finance lease liabilities is recognized over the lease term within
Interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations.

The balances for the operating and finance leases where we are the lessee are
presented as follows (in millions) within our consolidated balance sheets:

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31, 2022

|

|

|

December 31, 2021

|  
  
Operating leases:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Operating lease right-of-use assets

|

|

$

|

2,563

|

|

|

$

|

2,016

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Accrued liabilities and other

|

|

$

|

485

|

|

|

$

|

368

|  
  
Other long-term liabilities

|

|

|

2,164

|

|

|

|

1,671

|  
  
Total operating lease liabilities

|

|

$

|

2,649

|

|

|

$

|

2,039

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Finance leases:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Solar energy systems, net

|

|

$

|

25

|

|

|

$

|

27

|  
  
Property, plant and equipment, net

|

|

|

1,094

|

|

|

|

1,536

|  
  
Total finance lease assets

|

|

$

|

1,119

|

|

|

$

|

1,563

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Current portion of long-term debt and finance leases

|

|

$

|

486

|

|

|

$

|

501

|  
  
Long-term debt and finance leases, net of current portion

|

|

|

568

|

|

|

|

991

|  
  
Total finance lease liabilities

|

|

$

|

1,054

|

|

|

$

|

1,492

|  
  
The components of lease expense are as follows (in millions) within our
consolidated statements of operations:

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Operating lease expense:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Operating lease expense (1)

|

|

$

|

798

|

|

|

$

|

627

|

|

|

$

|

451

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Finance lease expense:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Amortization of leased assets

|

|

$

|

493

|

|

|

$

|

415

|

|

|

$

|

348

|  
  
Interest on lease liabilities

|

|

|

72

|

|

|

|

89

|

|

|

|

100

|  
  
Total finance lease expense

|

|

$

|

565

|

|

|

$

|

504

|

|

|

$

|

448

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Total lease expense

|

|

$

|

1,363

|

|

|

$

|

1,131

|

|

|

$

|

899

|  
  
(1)

Includes short-term leases and variable lease costs, which are immaterial.

75

* * *

Other information related to leases where we are the lessee is as follows:

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31, 2022

|

|

|

December 31, 2021

|  
  
Weighted-average remaining lease term:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Operating leases

|

|

6.4 years

|

|

|

6.5 years

|  
  
Finance leases

|

|

3.1 years

|

|

|

4.2 years

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Weighted-average discount rate:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Operating leases

|

|

|

5.3

|

%

|

|

|

5.0

|

%  
  
Finance leases

|

|

|

5.7

|

%

|

|

|

5.8

|

%  
  
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases where we are the lessee
is as follows (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Operating cash outflows from operating leases

|

|

$

|

754

|

|

|

$

|

616

|

|

|

$

|

456

|  
  
Operating cash outflows from finance leases (interest payments)

|

|

$

|

75

|

|

|

$

|

89

|

|

|

$

|

100

|  
  
Financing cash outflows from finance leases

|

|

$

|

502

|

|

|

$

|

439

|

|

|

$

|

338

|  
  
Leased assets obtained in exchange for finance lease liabilities

|

|

$

|

58

|

|

|

$

|

486

|

|

|

$

|

188

|  
  
Leased assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities

|

|

$

|

1,059

|

|

|

$

|

818

|

|

|

$

|

553

|  
  
As of December 31, 2022, the maturities of our operating and finance lease
liabilities (excluding short-term leases) are as follows (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Operating

|

|

|

Finance

|  
  
|

|

Leases

|

|

|

Leases

|  
  
2023

|

|

$

|

610

|

|

|

$

|

534

|  
  
2024

|

|

|

558

|

|

|

|

387

|  
  
2025

|

|

|

490

|

|

|

|

122

|  
  
2026

|

|

|

383

|

|

|

|

52

|  
  
2027

|

|

|

300

|

|

|

|

31

|  
  
Thereafter

|

|

|

805

|

|

|

|

4

|  
  
Total minimum lease payments

|

|

|

3,146

|

|

|

|

1,130

|  
  
Less: Interest

|

|

|

497

|

|

|

|

76

|  
  
Present value of lease obligations

|

|

|

2,649

|

|

|

|

1,054

|  
  
Less: Current portion

|

|

|

485

|

|

|

|

486

|  
  
Long-term portion of lease obligations

|

|

$

|

2,164

|

|

|

$

|

568

|  
  
As of December 31, 2022, we have excluded from the table above additional
operating leases that have not yet commenced with aggregate rent payments of
$901 million. These operating leases will commence between fiscal year 2023
and 2024 with lease terms of 2 years to 15 years.

76

* * *

Operating Lease and Sales-type Lease Receivables

We are the lessor of certain vehicle and solar energy system arrangements as
described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. As of
December 31, 2022, maturities of our operating lease and sales-type lease
receivables from customers for each of the next five years and thereafter were
as follows (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Operating

|

|

|

Sales-type

|  
  
|

|

Leases

|

|

|

Leases

|  
  
2023

|

|

$

|

1,212

|

|

|

$

|

202

|  
  
2024

|

|

|

900

|

|

|

|

208

|  
  
2025

|

|

|

463

|

|

|

|

192

|  
  
2026

|

|

|

215

|

|

|

|

174

|  
  
2027

|

|

|

194

|

|

|

|

49

|  
  
Thereafter

|

|

|

1,697

|

|

|

|

12

|  
  
Gross lease receivables

|

|

$

|

4,681

|

|

|

$

|

837

|  
  
The above table does not include vehicle sales to customers or leasing
partners with a resale value guarantee as the cash payments were received
upfront. For our solar PPA arrangements, customers are charged solely based on
actual power produced by the installed solar energy system at a predefined
rate per kilowatt-hour of power produced. The future payments from such
arrangements are not included in the above table as they are a function of the
power generated by the related solar energy systems in the future.

Net Investment in Sales-type Leases

Net investment in sales-type leases, which is the sum of the present value of
the future contractual lease payments, is presented on the consolidated
balance sheets as a component of Prepaid expenses and other current assets for
the current portion and as Other non-current assets for the long-term portion.
Lease receivables relating to sales-type leases are presented on the
consolidated balance sheets as follows (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31, 2022

|

|

|

December 31, 2021

|  
  
Gross lease receivables

|

|

$

|

837

|

|

|

$

|

427

|  
  
Unearned interest income

|

|

|

(95

|

)

|

|

|

(50

|

)  
  
Allowance for expected credit losses

|

|

|

(4

|

)

|

|

|

(1

|

)  
  
Net investment in sales-type leases

|

|

$

|

738

|

|

|

$

|

376

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Reported as:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Prepaid expenses and other current assets

|

|

$

|

164

|

|

|

$

|

73

|  
  
Other non-current assets

|

|

|

574

|

|

|

|

303

|  
  
Net investment in sales-type leases

|

|

$

|

738

|

|

|

$

|

376

|  
  
Lease Pass-Through Financing Obligation

As of December 31, 2022, we have six transactions referred to as "lease pass-
through fund arrangements." Under these arrangements, our wholly owned
subsidiaries finance the cost of solar energy systems with investors through
arrangements contractually structured as master leases for an initial term
ranging between 10 and 25 years. These solar energy systems are subject to
lease or PPAs with customers with an initial term not exceeding 25 years.

Under a lease pass-through fund arrangement, the investor makes a large
upfront payment to the lessor, which is one of our subsidiaries, and in some
cases, subsequent periodic payments. As of December 31, 2022, the future
minimum master lease payments to be received from investors, for each of the
next five years and thereafter, were as follows (in millions):

|  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
2023

|

|

$

|

26

|  
  
2024

|

|

|

18

|  
  
2025

|

|

|

27

|  
  
2026

|

|

|

28

|  
  
2027

|

|

|

29

|  
  
Thereafter

|

|

|

366

|  
  
Total

|

|

$

|

494

|  
  
77

* * *

Note 13 - Equity Incentive Plans

In June 2019, we adopted the 2019 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2019 Plan"). The
2019 Plan provides for the grant of stock options, restricted stock, RSUs,
stock appreciation rights, performance units and performance shares to our
employees, directors and consultants. Stock options granted under the 2019
Plan may be either incentive stock options or nonstatutory stock options.
Incentive stock options may only be granted to our employees. Nonstatutory
stock options may be granted to our employees, directors and consultants.
Generally, our stock options and RSUs vest over four years and our stock
options are exercisable over a maximum period of 10 years from their grant
dates. Vesting typically terminates when the employment or consulting
relationship ends.

As of December 31, 2022, 148.0 million shares were reserved and available for
issuance under the 2019 Plan, as adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock
Split.

The following table summarizes our stock option and RSU activity for the year
ended December 31, 2022:

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Stock Options

|

|

|

RSUs

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Weighted-

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Weighted-

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

Weighted-

|

|

|

Average

|

|

|

Aggregate

|

|

|

|

|

|

Average

|  
  
|

|

Number of

|

|

|

Average

|

|

|

Remaining

|

|

|

Intrinsic

|

|

|

Number

|

|

|

Grant

|  
  
|

|

Options

|

|

|

Exercise

|

|

|

Contractual

|

|

|

Value

|

|

|

of RSUs

|

|

|

Date Fair

|  
  
|

|

(in thousands)

|

|

|

Price

|

|

|

Life (years)

|

|

|

(in billions)

|

|

|

(in thousands)

|

|

|

Value

|  
  
Beginning of period (1)

|

|

|

357,120

|

|

|

$

|

28.15

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

34,312

|

|

|

$

|

88.23

|  
  
Granted

|

|

|

4,120

|

|

|

$

|

226.53

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

8,714

|

|

|

$

|

239.85

|  
  
Exercised or released

|

|

|

(7,971

|

)

|

|

$

|

27.96

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

(17,702

|

)

|

|

$

|

61.74

|  
  
Cancelled

|

|

|

(9,705

|

)

|

|

$

|

24.25

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

(3,991

|

)

|

|

$

|

140.68

|  
  
End of period

|

|

|

343,564

|

|

|

$

|

30.65

|

|

|

5.19

|

|

|

$

|

32.79

|

|

|

|

21,333

|

|

|

$

|

162.32

|  
  
Vested and expected  
to vest, December 31, 2022

|

|

|

343,105

|

|

|

$

|

30.61

|

|

|

|

5.19

|

|

|

$

|

32.75

|

|

|

|

21,323

|

|

|

$

|

162.33

|  
  
Exercisable and vested,  
December 31, 2022 (2)

|

|

|

304,862

|

|

|

$

|

25.68

|

|

|

|

5.08

|

|

|

$

|

29.93

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
(1)

Prior period results have been adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock
Split. See Note 1, Overview, for details.

(2)

Tranche 12 of the 2018 CEO Performance Award, which represents 25.3 million
stock options, was achieved in the fourth quarter of 2022 and will vest upon
expected certification following the filing of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

The weighted-average grant date fair value of RSUs granted in the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $239.85, $261.33 and $100.17,
respectively, as adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock Split. The
aggregate release date fair value of RSUs in the years ended December 31,
2022, 2021 and 2020 was $4.32 billion, $5.70 billion and $3.25 billion,
respectively.

The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised in the years ended December
31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 was $1.90 billion, $26.88 billion and $1.55 billion,
respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2021, our CEO exercised all
of the remaining vested options from the 2012 CEO Performance Award, which
amounted to an intrinsic value of $23.45 billion.

ESPP

Our employees are eligible to purchase our common stock through payroll
deductions of up to 15% of their eligible compensation, subject to any plan
limitations. The purchase price would be 85% of the lower of the fair market
value on the first and last trading days of each six-month offering period.
During the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, under the ESPP we
issued 1.4 million, 1.5 million and 5.5 million shares, respectively, as
adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock Split. As of December 31, 2022,
there were 99.9 million shares available for issuance under the ESPP, as
adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock Split.

78

* * *

Fair Value Assumptions

We use the fair value method in recognizing stock-based compensation expense.
Under the fair value method, we estimate the fair value of each stock option
award with service or service and performance conditions and the ESPP on the
grant date generally using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The
weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model for stock options
are as follows:

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Risk-free interest rate

|

|

|

3.11

|

%

|

|

|

0.66

|

%

|

|

|

0.26

|

%  
  
Expected term (in years)

|

|

|

4.1

|

|

|

|

4.3

|

|

|

|

3.9

|  
  
Expected volatility

|

|

|

63

|

%

|

|

|

59

|

%

|

|

|

69

|

%  
  
Dividend yield

|

|

|

0.0

|

%

|

|

|

0.0

|

%

|

|

|

0.0

|

%  
  
Grant date fair value per share (1)

|

|

$

|

114.51

|

|

|

$

|

128.02

|

|

|

$

|

72.05

|  
  
(1)

Prior period results have been adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock
Split. See Note 1, Overview, for details.

The fair value of RSUs with service or service and performance conditions is
measured on the grant date based on the closing fair market value of our
common stock. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield
for zero-coupon U.S. Treasury notes with maturities approximating each grant's
expected life. We use our historical data in estimating the expected term of
our employee grants. The expected volatility is based on the average of the
implied volatility of publicly traded options for our common stock and the
historical volatility of our common stock.

2018 CEO Performance Award

In March 2018, our stockholders approved the Board of Directors' grant of
304.0 million stock option awards, as adjusted to give effect to the 2020
Stock Split and the 2022 Stock Split, to our CEO (the "2018 CEO Performance
Award"). The 2018 CEO Performance Award consists of 12 vesting tranches with a
vesting schedule based entirely on the attainment of both operational
milestones (performance conditions) and market conditions, assuming continued
employment either as the CEO or as both Executive Chairman and Chief Product
Officer and service through each vesting date. Each of the 12 vesting tranches
of the 2018 CEO Performance Award will vest upon certification by the Board of
Directors that both (i) the market capitalization milestone for such tranche,
which began at $100.0 billion for the first tranche and increases by
increments of $50.0 billion thereafter (based on both a six calendar month
trailing average and a 30 calendar day trailing average, counting only trading
days), has been achieved, and (ii) any one of the following eight operational
milestones focused on total revenue or any one of the eight operational
milestones focused on Adjusted EBITDA have been achieved for the four
consecutive fiscal quarters on an annualized basis and subsequently reported
by us in our consolidated financial statements filed with our Forms 10-Q
and/or 10-K. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) attributable to
common stockholders before interest expense, provision (benefit) for income
taxes, depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation. Upon
vesting and exercise, including the payment of the exercise price of $23.34
per share as adjusted to give effect to the 2020 Stock Split and the 2022
Stock Split, our CEO must hold shares that he acquires for five years post-
exercise, other than a cashless exercise where shares are simultaneously sold
to pay for the exercise price and any required tax withholding.

The achievement status of the operational milestones as of December 31, 2022
is provided below. Although an operational milestone is deemed achieved in the
last quarter of the relevant annualized period, it may be certified only after
the financial statements supporting its achievement have been filed with our
Forms 10-Q and/or 10-K.

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Total Annualized Revenue

|

|

Annualized Adjusted EBITDA  
  
Milestone  
(in billions)

|

|

|

Achievement Status

|

|

Milestone  
(in billions)

|

|

|

Achievement Status  
  
$

|

20.0

|

|

|

Achieved

|

|

$

|

1.5

|

|

|

Achieved  
  
$

|

35.0

|

|

|

Achieved

|

|

$

|

3.0

|

|

|

Achieved  
  
$

|

55.0

|

|

|

Achieved

|

|

$

|

4.5

|

|

|

Achieved  
  
$

|

75.0

|

|

|

Achieved (1)

|

|

$

|

6.0

|

|

|

Achieved  
  
$

|

100.0

|

|

|

-

|

|

$

|

8.0

|

|

|

Achieved  
  
$

|

125.0

|

|

|

-

|

|

$

|

10.0

|

|

|

Achieved  
  
$

|

150.0

|

|

|

-

|

|

$

|

12.0

|

|

|

Achieved  
  
$

|

175.0

|

|

|

-

|

|

$

|

14.0

|

|

|

Achieved  
  
(1)

Achieved in the fourth quarter of 2022 and expected to be certified following
the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

79

* * *

Stock-based compensation under the 2018 CEO Performance Award represents a
non-cash expense and is recorded as a Selling, general, and administrative
operating expense in our consolidated statements of operations. In each
quarter since the grant of the 2018 CEO Performance Award, we have recognized
expense, generally on a pro-rated basis, for only the number of tranches (up
to the maximum of 12 tranches) that corresponds to the number of operational
milestones that have been achieved or have been determined probable of being
achieved in the future, in accordance with the following principles.

On the grant date, a Monte Carlo simulation was used to determine for each
tranche (i) a fixed amount of expense for such tranche and (ii) the future
time when the market capitalization milestone for such tranche was expected to
be achieved, or its "expected market capitalization milestone achievement
time." Separately, based on a subjective assessment of our future financial
performance, each quarter we determine whether it is probable that we will
achieve each operational milestone that has not previously been achieved or
deemed probable of achievement and if so, the future time when we expect to
achieve that operational milestone, or its "expected operational milestone
achievement time."

During the first quarter of 2022, three operational milestones were achieved
and consequently, we recognized an aggregate catch-up expense of $11 million.

As of December 31, 2022, all remaining unrecognized stock-based compensation
expense under the 2018 CEO Performance Award has been recognized. For the
years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we recorded stock-based
compensation expense of $66 million, $910 million and $838 million,
respectively, related to the 2018 CEO Performance Award.

Other Performance-Based Grants

2021 Performance-Based Stock Option & RSU Awards

During the fourth quarter of 2021, the Compensation Committee of our Board of
Directors granted to certain employees performance-based RSUs and stock
options to purchase an aggregate 2.2 million shares of our common stock, as
adjusted to give effect to the 2022 Stock Split. We begin recording stock-
based compensation expense when the performance milestones become probable of
achievement. Following achievement, vesting occurs over a two-year period with
continued employment. As of December 31, 2022, we had unrecognized stock-based
compensation expense of $204 million, which will be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 3.2 years. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we
recorded $159 million of stock-based compensation expense related to this
grant, net of forfeitures.

Summary Stock-Based Compensation Information

The following table summarizes our stock-based compensation expense by line
item in the consolidated statements of operations (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Cost of revenues

|

|

$

|

594

|

|

|

$

|

421

|

|

|

$

|

281

|  
  
Research and development

|

|

|

536

|

|

|

|

448

|

|

|

|

346

|  
  
Selling, general and administrative

|

|

|

430

|

|

|

|

1,252

|

|

|

|

1,107

|  
  
Total

|

|

$

|

1,560

|

|

|

$

|

2,121

|

|

|

$

|

1,734

|  
  
Our income tax benefits recognized from stock-based compensation arrangements
in each of the periods presented were immaterial due to cumulative losses and
valuation allowances. During the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020,
stock-based compensation expense capitalized to our consolidated balance
sheets was $245 million, $182 million and $89 million, respectively. As of
December 31, 2022, we had $3.94 billion of total unrecognized stock-based
compensation expense related to non-performance awards, which will be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.26 years.

80

* * *

Note 14 - Income Taxes

A provision for income taxes of $1.13 billion, $699 million and $292 million
has been recognized for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020,
respectively, related primarily to our subsidiaries located outside of the
U.S. Our income before provision for income taxes for the years ended December
31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 was as follows (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Domestic

|

|

$

|

5,524

|

|

|

$

|

(130

|

)

|

|

$

|

(198

|

)  
  
Noncontrolling interest and redeemable  
noncontrolling interest

|

|

|

31

|

|

|

|

125

|

|

|

|

141

|  
  
Foreign

|

|

|

8,164

|

|

|

|

6,348

|

|

|

|

1,211

|  
  
Income before income taxes

|

|

$

|

13,719

|

|

|

$

|

6,343

|

|

|

$

|

1,154

|  
  
The components of the provision for income taxes for the years ended December
31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Current:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Federal

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|

|

|

$

|

--

|  
  
State

|

|

|

62

|

|

|

|

9

|

|

|

|

4

|  
  
Foreign

|

|

|

1,266

|

|

|

|

839

|

|

|

|

248

|  
  
Total current

|

|

|

1,328

|

|

|

|

848

|

|

|

|

252

|  
  
Deferred:

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Federal

|

|

|

26

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
State

|

|

|

1

|

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Foreign

|

|

|

(223

|

)

|

|

|

(149

|

)

|

|

|

40

|  
  
Total deferred

|

|

|

(196

|

)

|

|

|

(149

|

)

|

|

|

40

|  
  
Total provision for income taxes

|

|

$

|

1,132

|

|

|

$

|

699

|

|

|

$

|

292

|  
  
Deferred tax assets (liabilities) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 consisted
of the following (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Deferred tax assets:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Net operating loss carry-forwards

|

|

$

|

4,486

|

|

|

$

|

7,607

|  
  
Research and development credits

|

|

|

1,184

|

|

|

|

923

|  
  
Other tax credits and attributes

|

|

|

217

|

|

|

|

335

|  
  
Deferred revenue

|

|

|

751

|

|

|

|

546

|  
  
Inventory and warranty reserves

|

|

|

819

|

|

|

|

377

|  
  
Stock-based compensation

|

|

|

185

|

|

|

|

115

|  
  
Operating lease right-of-use liabilities

|

|

|

554

|

|

|

|

430

|  
  
Capitalized research and development costs

|

|

|

693

|

|

|

|

--

|  
  
Deferred GILTI tax assets

|

|

|

466

|

|

|

|

556

|  
  
Accruals and others

|

|

|

178

|

|

|

|

191

|  
  
Total deferred tax assets

|

|

|

9,533

|

|

|

|

11,080

|  
  
Valuation allowance

|

|

|

(7,349

|

)

|

|

|

(9,074

|

)  
  
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance

|

|

|

2,184

|

|

|

|

2,006

|  
  
Deferred tax liabilities:

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Depreciation and amortization

|

|

|

(1,178

|

)

|

|

|

(1,279

|

)  
  
Investment in certain financing funds

|

|

|

(238

|

)

|

|

|

(209

|

)  
  
Operating lease right-of-use assets

|

|

|

(506

|

)

|

|

|

(391

|

)  
  
Deferred revenue

|

|

|

--

|

|

|

|

(49

|

)  
  
Other

|

|

|

(15

|

)

|

|

|

(13

|

)  
  
Total deferred tax liabilities

|

|

|

(1,937

|

)

|

|

|

(1,941

|

)  
  
Deferred tax assets (liabilities), net of valuation allowance

|

|

$

|

247

|

|

|

$

|

65

|  
  
81

* * *

As of December 31, 2022, we recorded a valuation allowance of $7.35 billion
for the portion of the deferred tax asset that we do not expect to be
realized. The valuation allowance on our net deferred taxes decreased by $1.73
billion in the year ended December 31, 2022, and increased by $6.14 billion
and $974 million during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020,
respectively. The changes in valuation allowance are primarily due to changes
in U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities incurred in the respective year.
The decrease in the year ended December 31, 2022 included utilization of
$13.57 billion net operating loss carry forwards to offset our 2022 U.S.
taxable income. We have $532 million of deferred tax assets in foreign
jurisdictions, which management believes are more-likely-than-not to be
realized given the expectation of future earnings in these jurisdictions. We
did not have any material releases of valuation allowance for the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020. We continue to monitor the realizability of
the U.S. deferred tax assets taking into account multiple factors. In
completing this assessment, we considered both objective and subjective
factors. These factors included, but were not limited to, a history of losses
in prior years, excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation,
future reversal of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies.
After evaluating all available evidence, we intend to continue maintaining a
full valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets until there is
sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of these
allowances. Given the improvement in our operating results and depending on
the amount of stock-based compensation tax deductions available in the future,
we may release the valuation allowance associated with the U.S. deferred tax
assets in the next few years. Release of all, or a portion, of the valuation
allowance would result in the recognition of certain deferred tax assets and a
decrease to income tax expense for the period the release is recorded.

The reconciliation of taxes at the federal statutory rate to our provision for
income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 was as
follows (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Tax at statutory federal rate

|

|

$

|

2,881

|

|

|

$

|

1,332

|

|

|

$

|

242

|  
  
State tax, net of federal benefit

|

|

|

51

|

|

|

|

6

|

|

|

|

4

|  
  
Nondeductible executive compensations

|

|

|

14

|

|

|

|

201

|

|

|

|

184

|  
  
Other nondeductible expenses

|

|

|

89

|

|

|

|

67

|

|

|

|

52

|  
  
Excess tax benefits related to stock based  
compensation

|

|

|

(745

|

)

|

|

|

(7,123

|

)

|

|

|

(666

|

)  
  
Foreign income rate differential

|

|

|

(923

|

)

|

|

|

(668

|

)

|

|

|

33

|  
  
U.S. tax credits

|

|

|

(276

|

)

|

|

|

(328

|

)

|

|

|

(181

|

)  
  
Noncontrolling interests and redeemable  
noncontrolling interests adjustment

|

|

|

42

|

|

|

|

11

|

|

|

|

5

|  
  
GILTI inclusion

|

|

|

1,279

|

|

|

|

1,008

|

|

|

|

133

|  
  
Unrecognized tax benefits

|

|

|

252

|

|

|

|

28

|

|

|

|

1

|  
  
Change in valuation allowance

|

|

|

(1,532

|

)

|

|

|

6,165

|

|

|

|

485

|  
  
Provision for income taxes

|

|

$

|

1,132

|

|

|

$

|

699

|

|

|

$

|

292

|  
  
As of December 31, 2022, we had $18.0 billion of federal and $14.0 billion of
state net operating loss carry-forwards available to offset future taxable
income, some of which, if not utilized, will begin to expire in 2023 for
federal and state purposes. A portion of these losses were generated by our
acquisition of SolarCity Corporation ("SolarCity") and some of the other
companies we acquired, and therefore are subject to change of control
provisions, which limit the amount of acquired tax attributes that can be
utilized in a given tax year. We do not expect the change of control
limitations or expiration dates to significantly impact our ability to utilize
these attributes.

As of December 31, 2022, we had research and development tax credits of $969
million and $734 million for federal and state income tax purposes,
respectively. If not utilized, the federal research and development tax
credits will expire in various amounts beginning in 2024. However, the state
of California research and development tax credits can be carried forward
indefinitely. In addition, we have other general business tax credits of $197
million for federal income tax purposes, which will not begin to significantly
expire until 2033.

Federal and state laws can impose substantial restrictions on the utilization
of net operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards in the event of an
"ownership change," as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. We
have determined that no significant limitation would be placed on the
utilization of our net operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards due to
prior ownership changes.

The local government of Shanghai granted a beneficial corporate income tax
rate of 15% to certain eligible enterprises, compared to the 25% statutory
corporate income tax rate in China. Our Gigafactory Shanghai subsidiary was
granted this beneficial income tax rate of 15% for 2019 through 2023.

82

* * *

As of December 31, 2022, we intend to indefinitely reinvest our foreign
earnings and cash unless such repatriation results in no or minimal tax costs.
We have recorded the taxes associated with the earnings we intend to
repatriate in the future. For the earnings we intend to indefinitely reinvest,
no deferred tax liabilities for foreign withholding or other taxes have been
recorded. The estimated amount of such unrecognized deferred tax liability
associated with the indefinitely reinvested earnings is approximately $168
million.

Uncertain Tax Positions

The changes to our gross unrecognized tax benefits were as follows (in
millions):

|  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|  
  
December 31, 2019

|

|

$

|

273

|  
  
Increases in balances related to prior year tax positions

|

|

|

66

|  
  
Increases in balances related to current year tax  
positions

|

|

|

41

|  
  
December 31, 2020

|

|

|

380

|  
  
Increases in balances related to prior year tax positions

|

|

|

117

|  
  
Decreases in balances related to prior year tax positions

|

|

|

(90

|

)  
  
Increases in balances related to current year tax  
positions

|

|

|

124

|  
  
December 31, 2021

|

|

|

531

|  
  
Increases in balances related to prior year tax positions

|

|

|

136

|  
  
Decreases in balances related to prior year tax positions

|

|

|

(12

|

)  
  
Increases in balances related to current year tax positions

|

|

|

222

|  
  
Decreases in balances related to expiration of the statute of limitations

|

|

|

(7

|

)  
  
December 31, 2022

|

|

$

|

870

|  
  
As of December 31, 2022, accrued interest and penalties related to
unrecognized tax benefits are classified as income tax expense and amounted to
$31 million. Unrecognized tax benefits of $572 million, if recognized, would
not affect our effective tax rate since the tax benefits would increase a
deferred tax asset that is currently fully offset by a valuation allowance.

We file income tax returns in the U.S. and various state and foreign
jurisdictions. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue
Service ("IRS") for the years 2015 to 2018. Additional tax years within the
periods 2004 to 2014 and 2019 to 2021 remain subject to examination for
federal income tax purposes. All net operating losses and tax credits
generated to date are subject to adjustment for U.S. federal and state income
tax purposes. Our returns for 2004 and subsequent tax years remain subject to
examination in U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions.

Given the uncertainty in timing and outcome of our tax examinations, an
estimate of the range of the reasonably possible change in gross unrecognized
tax benefits within twelve months cannot be made at this time.

Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies

Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York

We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY
Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related
research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the
facility.

Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment
targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New
York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined
capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the
State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an
annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of
such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation
requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program
payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these
requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material
breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us.

In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or
incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods
sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On
February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and
exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New
York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such
targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and
Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable
obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs
and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production
ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be
required to make substantial payments to the SUNY Foundation.

83

* * *

Operating Lease Arrangement in Shanghai, China

We have an operating lease arrangement for an initial term of 50 years with
the local government of Shanghai for land use rights where we have been
constructing Gigafactory Shanghai. Under the terms of the arrangement, we are
required to spend RMB 14.08 billion in capital expenditures by the end of 2023
and to generate RMB 2.23 billion of annual tax revenues starting at the end of
2023. If we are unwilling or unable to meet such target or obtain periodic
project approvals, in accordance with the Chinese government's standard terms
for such arrangements, we would be required to revert the site to the local
government and receive compensation for the remaining value of the land lease,
buildings and fixtures. We expect to meet the capital expenditure and tax
revenue requirements based on our current level of spend and sales.

Legal Proceedings

Litigation Relating to the SolarCity Acquisition

Between September 1, 2016 and October 5, 2016, seven lawsuits were filed in
the Delaware Court of Chancery by purported stockholders of Tesla challenging
our acquisition of SolarCity. Following consolidation, the lawsuit names as
defendants the members of Tesla's board of directors as then constituted and
alleges, among other things, that board members breached their fiduciary
duties in connection with the acquisition. The complaint asserts both
derivative claims and direct claims on behalf of a purported class and seeks,
among other relief, unspecified monetary damages, attorneys' fees and costs.
On January 22, 2020, all of the director defendants except Elon Musk reached a
settlement to resolve the lawsuit against them for an amount to be paid
entirely under the applicable insurance policy. The settlement, which does not
involve an admission of any wrongdoing by any party, was approved by the Court
on August 17, 2020. Tesla received payment of approximately $43 million on
September 16, 2020, which has been recognized in our consolidated statements
of operations as a reduction to Selling, general and administrative operating
expenses for costs previously incurred related to the acquisition of
SolarCity. On February 4, 2020, the Court issued a ruling that denied
plaintiffs' previously-filed motion for summary judgment and granted in part
and denied in part defendants' previously-filed motion for summary judgment.
The case was set for trial in March 2020 until it was postponed by the Court
due to safety precautions concerning COVID-19. The trial was held from July 12
to July 23, 2021 and on August 16, 2021. On October 22, 2021, the Court
approved the parties' joint stipulation that (a) the class is decertified and
the action shall continue exclusively as a derivative action under Court of
Chancery Rule 23.1 and (b) the direct claims against Elon Musk are dismissed
with prejudice. Following post-trial briefing, post-trial argument was held on
January 18, 2022.

On April 27, 2022, the Court entered judgment in favor of Mr. Musk on all
counts. On May 26, 2022, the plaintiff filed a notice of appeal. The parties
have completed briefing and argument will be held before the Supreme Court of
Delaware on March 29, 2023.

These plaintiffs and others filed parallel actions in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Delaware on or about April 21, 2017. They include claims
for violations of the federal securities laws and breach of fiduciary duties
by Tesla's board of directors. Those actions have been consolidated and stayed
pending the above-referenced Chancery Court litigation.

Litigation Relating to 2018 CEO Performance Award

On June 4, 2018, a purported Tesla stockholder filed a putative class and
derivative action in the Delaware Court of Chancery against Elon Musk and the
members of Tesla's board of directors as then constituted, alleging corporate
waste, unjust enrichment and that such board members breached their fiduciary
duties by approving the stock-based compensation plan awarded to Elon Musk in
2018. The complaint seeks, among other things, monetary damages and rescission
or reformation of the stock-based compensation plan. On August 31, 2018,
defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint; plaintiff filed its
opposition brief on November 1, 2018; and defendants filed a reply brief on
December 13, 2018. The hearing on the motion to dismiss was held on May 9,
2019. On September 20, 2019, the Court granted the motion to dismiss as to the
corporate waste claim but denied the motion as to the breach of fiduciary duty
and unjust enrichment claims. Defendants' answer was filed on December 3,
2019.

On January 25, 2021, the Court conditionally certified certain claims and a
class of Tesla stockholders as a class action. On September 30, 2021,
plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a verified amended derivative
complaint. On October 1, 2021, defendants Kimbal Musk and Steve Jurvetson
moved for summary judgment as to the claims against them. Following the
motion, plaintiff agreed to voluntarily dismiss the claims against Kimbal Musk
and Steve Jurvetson. Plaintiff also moved for summary judgment on October 1,
2021. On October 27, 2021, the Court approved the parties' joint stipulation
that, among other things, (a) all claims against Kimbal Musk and Steve
Jurvetson in the Complaint are dismissed with prejudice; (b) the class is
decertified and the action shall continue exclusively as a derivative action
under Court of Chancery Rule 23.1; and (c) the direct claims against the
remaining defendants are dismissed with prejudice. On November 18, 2021, the
remaining defendants (a) moved for partial summary judgment, (b) opposed
plaintiff's summary judgment motion and (c) opposed the plaintiff's motion to
amend his complaint. In January 2022, the case was assigned to a different
judge. On February 24, 2022, the court (i) granted plaintiff's motion to amend
his complaint, and (ii) canceled oral argument on the summary judgment
motions, stating that the court is "skeptical that this litigation can be
resolved based on the undisputed facts" and the "case is going to trial," but
that the "parties may reassert their arguments made in support of summary
judgment in their pre-trial and post-trial briefs." Trial was held November
14-18, 2022. Post-trial briefing is underway and post-trial argument is
scheduled for February 21, 2023.

84

* * *

Litigation Related to Directors' Compensation

On June 17, 2020, a purported Tesla stockholder filed a derivative action in
the Delaware Court of Chancery, purportedly on behalf of Tesla, against
certain of Tesla's current and former directors regarding compensation awards
granted to Tesla's directors, other than Elon Musk, between 2017 and 2020. The
suit asserts claims for breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment and
seeks declaratory and injunctive relief, unspecified damages and other relief.
Defendants filed their answer on September 17, 2020. Trial is currently set
for November 27, 2023, to December 1, 2023.

Litigation Relating to Potential Going Private Transaction

Between August 10, 2018 and September 6, 2018, nine purported stockholder
class actions were filed against Tesla and Elon Musk in connection with Mr.
Musk's August 7, 2018 Twitter post that he was considering taking Tesla
private. All of the suits are now pending in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California. Although the complaints vary in certain
respects, they each purport to assert claims for violations of federal
securities laws related to Mr. Musk's statement and seek unspecified
compensatory damages and other relief on behalf of a purported class of
purchasers of Tesla's securities. Plaintiffs filed their consolidated
complaint on January 16, 2019 and added as defendants the members of Tesla's
board of directors. The now-consolidated purported stockholder class action
was stayed while the issue of selection of lead counsel was briefed and argued
before the Ninth Circuit. The Ninth Circuit ruled regarding lead counsel.
Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on November 22, 2019. The
hearing on the motion was held on March 6, 2020. On April 15, 2020, the Court
denied defendants' motion to dismiss. The parties stipulated to certification
of a class of stockholders, which the court granted on November 25, 2020. On
January 11, 2022, plaintiff filed a motion for partial summary judgment. On
April 1, 2022, the Court granted in part plaintiffs' motion for partial
summary judgment. The Company disagrees with the ruling and accordingly, on
April 22, 2022, asked the Court for reconsideration or, in the alternative,
certification to file an interlocutory appeal. On June 16, 2022, in response
to Tesla's motions, the Court denied certification to appeal and declined to
reconsider its opinion but clarified its summary judgment ruling to make clear
that it had not ruled that any misstatements it identified met the required
materiality element under the securities statute. The issue of materiality and
reliance will both be questions for the jury to decide at trial, which started
on January 17, 2023.

Between October 17, 2018 and March 8, 2021, seven derivative lawsuits were
filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery, purportedly on behalf of Tesla,
against Mr. Musk and the members of Tesla's board of directors, as constituted
at relevant times, in relation to statements made and actions connected to a
potential going private transaction, with certain of the lawsuits challenging
additional Twitter posts by Mr. Musk, among other things. Five of those
actions were consolidated, and all seven actions have been stayed pending
resolution of the above-referenced consolidated purported stockholder class
action. In addition to these cases, two derivative lawsuits were filed on
October 25, 2018 and February 11, 2019 in the U.S. District Court for the
District of Delaware, purportedly on behalf of Tesla, against Mr. Musk and the
members of the Tesla board of directors as then constituted. Those cases have
also been consolidated and stayed pending resolution of the above-referenced
consolidated purported stockholder class action.

On October 21, 2022, a lawsuit was filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery by
a purported shareholder of Tesla alleging, among other things, that board
members breached their fiduciary duties in connection with their oversight of
the Company's 2018 settlement with the SEC, as amended. Among other things,
the plaintiff seeks reforms to the Company's corporate governance and internal
procedures, unspecified damages, and attorneys' fees. The parties reached an
agreement to stay the case until March 7, 2023.

Unless otherwise stated, the individual defendants named in the stockholder
proceedings described above and the Company with respect to the stockholder
class action proceedings described above believe that the claims in such
proceedings have no merit and intend to defend against them vigorously. We are
unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss, if any,
associated with these claims.

On November 15, 2021, JPMorgan Chase Bank ("JP Morgan") filed a lawsuit
against Tesla in the Southern District of New York alleging breach of a stock
warrant agreement that was entered into as part of a convertible notes
offering in 2014. In 2018, JP Morgan informed Tesla that it had adjusted the
strike price based upon Mr. Musk's August 7, 2018 Twitter post that he was
considering taking Tesla private. Tesla disputed JP Morgan's adjustment as a
violation of the parties' agreement. In 2021, Tesla delivered shares to JP
Morgan per the agreement, which they duly accepted. JP Morgan now alleges that
it is owed approximately $162 million as the value of additional shares that
it claims should have been delivered as a result of the adjustment to the
strike price in 2018. On January 24, 2022, Tesla filed multiple counterclaims
as part of its answer to the underlying lawsuit, asserting among other points
that JP Morgan should have terminated the stock warrant agreement in 2018
rather than make an adjustment to the strike price that it should have known
would lead to a commercially unreasonable result. Tesla believes that the
adjustments made by JP Morgan were neither proper nor commercially reasonable,
as required under the stock warrant agreements. JP Morgan filed a motion for
judgment on the pleadings, which Tesla opposed, and that motion is currently
pending before the Court.

85

* * *

Litigation and Investigations Relating to Alleged Discrimination and
Harassment

On October 4, 2021, in a case captioned Diaz v. Tesla, a jury in the Northern
District of California returned a verdict of $136.9 million against Tesla on
claims by a former contingent worker that he was subjected to race
discrimination while assigned to work at Tesla's Fremont Factory from
2015-2016. On November 16, 2021, Tesla filed a post-trial motion for relief
that included a request for a new trial or reduction of the jury's damages.
The Court held a hearing on Tesla's motion on January 19, 2022. On April 13,
2022, the Court granted Tesla's motion in part, reducing the total damages to
$15 million and conditionally denied the motion for a new trial subject to the
plaintiff's acceptance of the reduced award. On June 21, 2022, the plaintiff
rejected the reduced award and, as a result, on June 27, 2022, the Court
ordered a new trial on damages only, to commence on March 27, 2023. Tesla
continues to believe that the facts and law do not justify the damages awarded
and is assessing its next steps.

On February 9, 2022, shortly after the Diaz jury verdict, the California Civil
Rights Department ("CRD," formerly "DFEH") filed a civil complaint against
Tesla in Alameda County, California Superior Court, alleging systemic race
discrimination, hostile work environment and pay equity claims, among others.
CRD's amended complaint seeks monetary damages and injunctive relief. On
September 22, 2022, Tesla filed a cross complaint against CRD, alleging that
it violated the Administrative Procedures Act by failing to follow statutory
pre-requisites prior to filing suit and that cross complaint was subject to a
sustained demurrer. Tesla has until February 3, 2023 to amend its cross
complaint. The case is now in discovery.

Additionally, on June 1, 2022 the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
("EEOC") issued a cause finding against Tesla that closely parallels the CRD's
allegations. Tesla is in the process of setting up a mandatory mediation with
the EEOC.

On June 16, 2022, two Tesla stockholders filed separate derivative actions in
the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas, purportedly on
behalf of Tesla, against certain of Tesla's current and former directors. Both
suits assert claims for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, and
violation of the federal securities laws in connection with alleged race and
gender discrimination and sexual harassment. Among other things, plaintiffs
seek declaratory and injunctive relief, unspecified damages payable to Tesla,
and attorneys' fees. On July 22, 2022, the Court consolidated the two cases
and on September 6, 2022, plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint. On
November 7, 2022, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the case.
Plaintiffs filed a response of January 13, 2023, and the defendants' reply is
due February 17, 2023.

Certain Investigations and Other Matters

We receive requests for information from regulators and governmental
authorities, such as the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the
National Transportation Safety Board, the SEC, the Department of Justice
("DOJ") and various state, federal, and international agencies. We routinely
cooperate with such regulatory and governmental requests, including subpoenas,
formal and informal requests and other investigations and inquiries.

For example, the SEC had issued subpoenas to Tesla in connection with Elon
Musk's prior statement that he was considering taking Tesla private. The take-
private investigation was resolved and closed with a settlement entered into
with the SEC in September 2018 and as further clarified in April 2019 in an
amendment. The SEC also has periodically issued subpoenas to us seeking
information on our governance processes around compliance with the SEC
settlement, as amended.

Separately, the company has received requests from the DOJ for documents
related to Tesla's Autopilot and FSD features. To our knowledge no government
agency in any ongoing investigation has concluded that any wrongdoing
occurred. We cannot predict the outcome or impact of any ongoing matters.
Should the government decide to pursue an enforcement action, there exists the
possibility of a material adverse impact on our business, results of
operation, prospects, cash flows and financial position.

We are also subject to various other legal proceedings and claims that arise
from the normal course of business activities. If an unfavorable ruling or
development were to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse
impact on our business, results of operations, prospects, cash flows,
financial position and brand.

86

* * *

Letters of Credit

As of December 31, 2022, we had $318 million of unused letters of credit
outstanding.

Note 16 - Variable Interest Entity Arrangements

We have entered into various arrangements with investors to facilitate the
funding and monetization of our solar energy systems and vehicles. In
particular, our wholly owned subsidiaries and fund investors have formed and
contributed cash and assets into various financing funds and entered into
related agreements. We have determined that the funds are VIEs and we are the
primary beneficiary of these VIEs by reference to the power and benefits
criterion under ASC 810. We have considered the provisions within the
agreements, which grant us the power to manage and make decisions that affect
the operation of these VIEs, including determining the solar energy systems
and the associated customer contracts to be sold or contributed to these VIEs,
redeploying solar energy systems and managing customer receivables. We
consider that the rights granted to the fund investors under the agreements
are more protective in nature rather than participating.

As the primary beneficiary of these VIEs, we consolidate in the financial
statements the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of
these VIEs, and all intercompany balances and transactions between us and
these VIEs are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Cash
distributions of income and other receipts by a fund, net of agreed upon
expenses, estimated expenses, tax benefits and detriments of income and loss
and tax credits, are allocated to the fund investor and our subsidiary as
specified in the agreements.

Generally, our subsidiary has the option to acquire the fund investor's
interest in the fund for an amount based on the market value of the fund or
the formula specified in the agreements.

Upon the sale or liquidation of a fund, distributions would occur in the order
and priority specified in the agreements.

Pursuant to management services, maintenance and warranty arrangements, we
have been contracted to provide services to the funds, such as operations and
maintenance support, accounting, lease servicing and performance reporting. In
some instances, we have guaranteed payments to the fund investors as specified
in the agreements. A fund's creditors have no recourse to our general credit
or to that of other funds. Certain assets of the funds have been pledged as
collateral for their obligations.

The aggregate carrying values of the VIEs' assets and liabilities, after
elimination of any intercompany transactions and balances, in the consolidated
balance sheets were as follows (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Assets

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Current assets

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Cash and cash equivalents

|

|

$

|

68

|

|

|

$

|

87

|  
  
Accounts receivable, net

|

|

|

22

|

|

|

|

24

|  
  
Prepaid expenses and other current assets

|

|

|

274

|

|

|

|

152

|  
  
Total current assets

|

|

|

364

|

|

|

|

263

|  
  
Solar energy systems, net

|

|

|

4,060

|

|

|

|

4,515

|  
  
Other non-current assets

|

|

|

404

|

|

|

|

276

|  
  
Total assets

|

|

$

|

4,828

|

|

|

$

|

5,054

|  
  
Liabilities

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Current liabilities

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Accrued liabilities and other

|

|

$

|

69

|

|

|

$

|

74

|  
  
Deferred revenue

|

|

|

10

|

|

|

|

11

|  
  
Current portion of debt and finance leases

|

|

|

1,013

|

|

|

|

1,031

|  
  
Total current liabilities

|

|

|

1,092

|

|

|

|

1,116

|  
  
Deferred revenue, net of current portion

|

|

|

149

|

|

|

|

161

|  
  
Debt and finance leases, net of current portion

|

|

|

971

|

|

|

|

2,093

|  
  
Other long-term liabilities

|

|

|

3

|

|

|

|

11

|  
  
Total liabilities

|

|

$

|

2,215

|

|

|

$

|

3,381

|  
  
Note 17 - Related Party Transactions

In February 2020, our CEO and a member of our Board of Directors purchased
from us 195,555 and 18,750 shares, respectively, as adjusted to give effect to
the 2022 Stock Split, of our common stock in a public offering at the public
offering price for an aggregate $10 million and $1 million, respectively.

87

* * *

In June 2020, our CEO entered into an indemnification agreement with us for an
interim term of 90 days. During the interim term, we resumed our annual
evaluation of all available options for providing directors' and officers'
indemnity coverage, which we had suspended during the height of shelter-in-
place requirements related to the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of such process,
we obtained a binding market quote for a directors' and officers' liability
insurance policy with an aggregate coverage limit of $100 million.

Pursuant to the indemnification agreement, our CEO provided, from his personal
funds, directors' and officers' indemnity coverage to us during the interim
term in the event such coverage is not indemnifiable by us, up to a total of
$100 million. In return, we paid our CEO a total of $3 million, which
represents the market-based premium for the market quote described above as
prorated for 90 days and further discounted by 50%. Following the lapse of the
90-day period, we did not extend the term of the indemnification agreement
with our CEO and instead bound a customary directors' and officers' liability
insurance policy with third-party carriers.

In relation to our CEO's exercise of stock options and sale of common stock
from the 2012 CEO Performance Award, Tesla withheld the appropriate amount of
taxes. However, given the significant amounts involved, our CEO entered into
an indemnification agreement with us in November 2021 for additional taxes
owed, if any.

Tesla periodically does business with certain entities with which its CEO and
directors are affiliated, such as SpaceX and Twitter, Inc., in accordance with
our Related Person Transactions Policy. Such transactions have not had to
date, and are not currently expected to have, a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements.

Note 18 - Segment Reporting and Information about Geographic Areas

We have two operating and reportable segments: (i) automotive and (ii) energy
generation and storage. The automotive segment includes the design,
development, manufacturing, sales and leasing of electric vehicles as well as
sales of automotive regulatory credits. Additionally, the automotive segment
is also comprised of services and other, which includes non-warranty after-
sales vehicle services and parts, paid Supercharging, sales of used vehicles,
retail merchandise and vehicle insurance revenue. The energy generation and
storage segment includes the design, manufacture, installation, sales and
leasing of solar energy generation and energy storage products and related
services and sales of solar energy systems incentives. Our CODM does not
evaluate operating segments using asset or liability information. The
following table presents revenues and gross profit by reportable segment (in
millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
Automotive segment

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Revenues

|

|

$

|

77,553

|

|

|

$

|

51,034

|

|

|

$

|

29,542

|  
  
Gross profit

|

|

$

|

20,565

|

|

|

$

|

13,735

|

|

|

$

|

6,612

|  
  
Energy generation and storage segment

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
Revenues

|

|

$

|

3,909

|

|

|

$

|

2,789

|

|

|

$

|

1,994

|  
  
Gross profit

|

|

$

|

288

|

|

|

$

|

(129

|

)

|

|

$

|

18

|  
  
The following table presents revenues by geographic area based on the sales
location of our products (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

Year Ended December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|

|

|

2020

|  
  
United States

|

|

$

|

40,553

|

|

|

$

|

23,973

|

|

|

$

|

15,207

|  
  
China

|

|

|

18,145

|

|

|

|

13,844

|

|

|

|

6,662

|  
  
Other

|

|

|

22,764

|

|

|

|

16,006

|

|

|

|

9,667

|  
  
Total

|

|

$

|

81,462

|

|

|

$

|

53,823

|

|

|

$

|

31,536

|  
  
The following table presents long-lived assets by geographic area (in
millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
United States

|

|

$

|

21,667

|

|

|

$

|

19,026

|  
  
Germany

|

|

|

3,547

|

|

|

|

2,606

|  
  
China

|

|

|

2,978

|

|

|

|

2,415

|  
  
Other international

|

|

|

845

|

|

|

|

602

|  
  
Total

|

|

$

|

29,037

|

|

|

$

|

24,649

|  
  
88

* * *

The following table presents inventory by reportable segment (in millions):

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

December 31,

|

|

|

December 31,

|  
  
|

|

2022

|

|

|

2021

|  
  
Automotive

|

|

$

|

10,996

|

|

|

$

|

4,978

|  
  
Energy generation and storage

|

|

|

1,843

|

|

|

|

779

|  
  
Total

|

|

$

|

12,839

|

|

|

$

|

5,757

|  
  
Note 19 - Restructuring and Other

During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, we recorded $204 million
and $101 million, respectively, of impairment losses on digital assets. During
the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, we also realized gains of $64
million and $128 million, respectively, in connection with converting our
holdings of digital assets into fiat currency. Additionally, we recorded other
expenses of $36 million in the second quarter during the year ended December
31, 2022.

89

* * *

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our
Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure
controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). In designing and evaluating the
disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognizes that any
controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide
only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In
addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the
fact that there are resource constraints and that our management is required
to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and
procedures relative to their costs.

Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2022, our disclosure controls and
procedures were designed at a reasonable assurance level and were effective to
provide reasonable assurance that the information we are required to disclose
in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated
to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosures.

Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and
directors and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission ("COSO"). Our management concluded that our internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2022.

Our independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2022, as stated in their report which is included herein.

Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls

Because of inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
not prevent or detect misstatements and projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2022, which has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None.

ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS

Not applicable.

90

* * *

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this Item 10 of Form 10-K will be included in our
2023 Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
in connection with the solicitation of proxies for our 2023 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference. The 2023 Proxy Statement
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after the end of the fiscal year to which this report relates.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item 11 of Form 10-K will be included in our
2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this Item 12 of Form 10-K will be included in our
2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this Item 13 of Form 10-K will be included in our
2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this Item 14 of Form 10-K will be included in our
2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

91

* * *

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

1\. Financial statements (see Index to Consolidated Financial Statements in
Part II, Item 8 of this report)

2\. All financial statement schedules have been omitted since the required
information was not applicable or was not present in amounts sufficient to
require submission of the schedules, or because the information required is
included in the consolidated financial statements or the accompanying notes

3\. The exhibits listed in the following Index to Exhibits are filed or
incorporated by reference as part of this report

92

* * *

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
3.1

|

|

[Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
Registrant.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459017003118/tsla-
ex31_1396.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

3.1

|

|

March 1, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
3.2

|

|

[Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the
Registrant.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459017003118/tsla-
ex32_1394.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

3.2

|

|

March 1, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
3.3

|

|

[Amended and Restated Bylaws of the
Registrant.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459017000802/tsla-
ex32_8.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

3.2

|

|

February 1, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.1

|

|

[Specimen common stock certificate of the
Registrant.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459017003118/tsla-
ex41_1279.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.1

|

|

March 1, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.2

|

|

[Fifth Amended and Restated Investors' Rights Agreement, dated as of August
31, 2009, between Registrant and certain holders of the Registrant's capital
stock named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312510017054/dex42.htm)

|

|

S-1

|

|

333-164593

|

|

4.2

|

|

January 29, 2010

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.3

|

|

[Amendment to Fifth Amended and Restated Investors' Rights Agreement, dated as
of May 20, 2010, between Registrant and certain holders of the Registrant's
capital stock named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312510129878/dex42a.htm)

|

|

S-1/A

|

|

333-164593

|

|

4.2A

|

|

May 27, 2010

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.4

|

|

[Amendment to Fifth Amended and Restated Investors' Rights Agreement between
Registrant, Toyota Motor Corporation and certain holders of the Registrant's
capital stock named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312510129878/dex42b.htm)

|

|

S-1/A

|

|

333-164593

|

|

4.2B

|

|

May 27, 2010

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.5

|

|

[Amendment to Fifth Amended and Restated Investor's Rights Agreement, dated as
of June 14, 2010, between Registrant and certain holders of the Registrant's
capital stock named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312510139143/dex42c.htm)

|

|

S-1/A

|

|

333-164593

|

|

4.2C

|

|

June 15, 2010

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.6

|

|

[Amendment to Fifth Amended and Restated Investor's Rights Agreement, dated as
of November 2, 2010, between Registrant and certain holders of the
Registrant's capital stock named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312510248220/dex41.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.1

|

|

November 4, 2010

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.7

|

|

[Waiver to Fifth Amended and Restated Investor's Rights Agreement, dated as of
May 22, 2011, between Registrant and certain holders of the Registrant's
capital stock named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312511157135/dex42e.htm)

|

|

S-1/A

|

|

333-174466

|

|

4.2E

|

|

June 2, 2011

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.8

|

|

[Amendment to Fifth Amended and Restated Investor's Rights Agreement, dated as
of May 30, 2011, between Registrant and certain holders of the Registrant's
capital stock named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312511156213/dex41.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.1

|

|

June 1, 2011

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.9

|

|

[Sixth Amendment to Fifth Amended and Restated Investors' Rights Agreement,
dated as of May 15, 2013 among the Registrant, the Elon Musk Revocable Trust
dated July 22, 2003 and certain other holders of the capital stock of the
Registrant named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312513227959/d540675dex41.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.1

|

|

May 20, 2013

|

|  
  
93

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.10

|

|

[Waiver to Fifth Amended and Restated Investor's Rights Agreement, dated as of
May 14, 2013, between the Registrant and certain holders of the capital stock
of the Registrant named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312513227959/d540675dex42.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.2

|

|

May 20, 2013

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.11

|

|

[Waiver to Fifth Amended and Restated Investor's Rights Agreement, dated as of
August 13, 2015, between the Registrant and certain holders of the capital
stock of the Registrant named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312515296117/d45707dex41.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.1

|

|

August 19, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.12

|

|

[Waiver to Fifth Amended and Restated Investors' Rights Agreement, dated as of
May 18, 2016, between the Registrant and certain holders of the capital stock
of the Registrant named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312516600683/d82775dex41.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.1

|

|

May 24, 2016

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.13

|

|

[Waiver to Fifth Amended and Restated Investors' Rights Agreement, dated as of
March 15, 2017, between the Registrant and certain holders of the capital
stock of the Registrant named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312517087428/d349232dex41.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.1

|

|

March 17, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.14

|

|

[Waiver to Fifth Amended and Restated Investors' Rights Agreement, dated as of
May 1, 2019, between the Registrant and certain holders of the capital stock
of the Registrant named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312519135910/d730491dex41.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.1

|

|

May 3, 2019

|

|  
  
4.15

|

|

[Indenture, dated as of May 22, 2013, by and between the Registrant and U.S.
Bank National
Association.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312513231437/d542515dex41.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.1

|

|

May 22, 2013

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.16

|

|

[Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 22, 2017, by and between the
Registrant and U.S. Bank National
Association.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312517092269/d341621dex42.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.2

|

|

March 22, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.17

|

|

[Form of 2.375% Convertible Senior Note Due March 15, 2022 (included in
Exhibit
4.18).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312517092269/d341621dex42.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.2

|

|

March 22, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.18

|

|

[Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 7, 2019, by and between
Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, related to 2.00% Convertible
Senior Notes due May 15,
2024.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459019016764/tsla-
ex42_7.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.2

|

|

May 8, 2019

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.19

|

|

[Form of 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due May 15, 2024 (included in Exhibit
4.20).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459019016764/tsla-
ex42_7.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.2

|

|

May 8, 2019

|

|  
  
94

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.20

|

|

[Indenture, dated as of October 15, 2014, between SolarCity and U.S. Bank
National Association, as
trustee.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000119312514371976/d800964dex41.htm)

|

|

S-3ASR(1)

|

|

333-199321

|

|

4.1

|

|

October 15, 2014

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.21

|

|

[Tenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 9, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.00% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/6-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015001420/scty-
ex4_2015030930.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.3

|

|

March 9, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.22

|

|

[Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 9, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.75% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/7-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015001420/scty-
ex4_2015030931.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.4

|

|

March 9, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.23

|

|

[Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 19, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C4-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015001843/scty-
ex45_201503199.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

March 19, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.24

|

|

[Sixteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 19, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C5-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015001843/scty-
ex46_2015031910.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

March 19, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.25

|

|

[Twentieth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 26, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C9-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015002014/scty-
ex45_201503269.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

March 26, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.26

|

|

[Twenty-First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 26, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C10-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015002014/scty-
ex46_2015032610.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

March 26, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.27

|

|

[Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 2, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C14-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015002374/scty-
ex45_2015040210.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

April 2, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.28

|

|

[Thirtieth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C19-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015002503/scty-
ex45_201504099.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

April 9, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.29

|

|

[Thirty-First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C20-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015002503/scty-
ex46_2015040910.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

April 9, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.30

|

|

[Thirty-Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 14, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C24-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015002569/scty-
ex45_201504149.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

April 14, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.31

|

|

[Thirty-Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 14, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C25-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015002569/scty-
ex46_2015041410.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

April 14, 2015

|

|  
  
95

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.32

|

|

[Thirty-Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 21, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C27-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015002724/scty-
ex43_201504217.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.3

|

|

April 21, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.33

|

|

[Thirty-Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 21, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C28-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015002724/scty-
ex44_201504218.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.4

|

|

April 21, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.34

|

|

[Forty-Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 27, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C32-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015002887/scty-
ex45_2015042710.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

April 27, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.35

|

|

[Forty-Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 27, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C33-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015002887/scty-
ex46_2015042711.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

April 27, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.36

|

|

[Forty-Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 1, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.00% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/12-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015003189/scty-
ex45_201504276.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

May 1, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.37

|

|

[Forty-Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 1, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.75% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/13-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015003189/scty-
ex46_2015042710.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

May 1, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.38

|

|

[Fifty-Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 11, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C36-10](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015003960/scty-
ex44_201505118.htm).

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.4

|

|

May 11, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.39

|

|

[Fifty-Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 11, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C37-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015003960/scty-
ex45_201505119.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

May 11, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.40

|

|

[Fifty-Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 18, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C40-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015004473/scty-
ex44_201505188.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.4

|

|

May 18, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.41

|

|

[Fifty-Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 18, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C41-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015004473/scty-
ex45_201505189.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

May 18, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.42

|

|

[Sixty-First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 26, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C44-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015004617/scty-
ex44_201505268.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.4

|

|

May 26, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.43

|

|

[Sixty-Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 26, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C45-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015004617/scty-
ex45_201505269.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

May 26, 2015

|

|  
  
96

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.44

|

|

[Seventieth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 16, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C52-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015005102/scty-
ex44_201506168.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.4

|

|

June 16, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.45

|

|

[Seventy-First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 16, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C53-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015005102/scty-
ex45_201506169.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

June 16, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.46

|

|

[Seventy-Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 22, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C56-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015005203/scty-
ex44_201506228.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.4

|

|

June 23, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.47

|

|

[Seventy-Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 22, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C57-15](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015005203/scty-
ex45_201506229.htm).

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

June 23, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.48

|

|

[Eightieth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C61-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015005299/scty-
ex45_201506299.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

June 29, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.49

|

|

[Eighty-First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C62-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015005299/scty-
ex46_2015062910.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

June 29, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.50

|

|

[Ninetieth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 20, 2015, by and between
SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C71-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015005521/scty-
ex45_9.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

July 21, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.51

|

|

[Ninety-First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 20, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/C72-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015005521/scty-
ex46_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

July 21, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.52

|

|

[Ninety-Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 31, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.00% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/20-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015005924/scty-
ex45_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

July 31, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.53

|

|

[Ninety-Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 31, 2015, by and
between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.75% Solar Bonds,
Series
2015/21-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015005924/scty-
ex46_11.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

July 31, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.54

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 10, 2015, by
and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70% Solar
Bonds, Series
2015/C81-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015006839/scty-
ex45_9.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

August 10, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.55

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 17, 2015,
by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45% Solar
Bonds, Series
2015/C87-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015007455/scty-
ex46_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

August 17, 2015

|

|  
  
97

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.56

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Sixteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 24,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C92-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015007546/scty-
ex46_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

August 24, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.57

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Twenty-First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 31,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C97-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015007649/scty-
ex46_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

August 31, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.58

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Twenty-Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September
14, 2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's
4.70% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C101-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015007969/scty-
ex45_9.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

September 15, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.59

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Twenty-Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September
14, 2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's
5.45% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C102-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015007969/scty-
ex46_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

September 15, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.60

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Thirty-Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September
28, 2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's
4.70% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C106-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015008193/scty-
ex45_9.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

September 29, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.61

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Thirty-Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September
28, 2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's
5.45% Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C107-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015008193/scty-
ex46_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

September 29, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.62

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Thirty-Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 13,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C111-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015008369/scty-
ex45_9.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

October 13, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.63

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Forty-Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 30,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.00%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/25-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015008995/scty-
ex45_9.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

October 30, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.64

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Forty-Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 30,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.75%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/26-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015008995/scty-
ex46_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

October 30, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.65

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Forty-Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 4,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C116-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015009335/scty-
ex45_9.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

November 4, 2015

|

|  
  
98

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.66

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Fifty-Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 16,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C121-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015010841/scty-
ex45_9.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

November 17, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.67

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Fifty-Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 16,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C122-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015010841/scty-
ex46_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

November 17, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.68

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Fifty-Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 30,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C126-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015011167/scty-
ex45_9.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

November 30, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.69

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Fifty-Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 30,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C127-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015011167/scty-
ex46_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

November 30, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.70

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Sixty-Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 14,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C131-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015011493/scty-
ex45_9.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

December 14, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.71

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Sixty-Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 14,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C132-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015011493/scty-
ex46_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

December 14, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.72

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Sixty-Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 28,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 4.70%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C136-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015011647/scty-
ex45_9.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

December 28, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.73

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Sixty-Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 28,
2015, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.45%
Solar Bonds, Series
2015/C137-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015011647/scty-
ex46_10.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

December 28, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.74

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Seventy-Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 29,
2016, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's 5.00%
Solar Bonds, Series
2016/4-10.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459016012103/scty-
ex45_44.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.5

|

|

January 29, 2016

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.75

|

|

[One Hundred-and-Seventy-Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January
29, 2016, by and between SolarCity and the Trustee, related to SolarCity's
5.75% Solar Bonds, Series
2016/5-15.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459016012103/scty-
ex46_45.htm)

|

|

8-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

4.6

|

|

January 29, 2016

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
4.76

|

|

[Description of Registrant's
Securities](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001318605/000156459020004475/tsla-
ex4119_652.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

4.119

|

|

February 13, 2020

|

|  
  
99

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.1**

|

|

[Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and its directors
and
officers.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312510139143/dex101.htm)

|

|

S-1/A

|

|

333-164593

|

|

10.1

|

|

June 15, 2010

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.2**

|

|

[2003 Equity Incentive
Plan.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312510129878/dex102.htm)

|

|

S-1/A

|

|

333-164593

|

|

10.2

|

|

May 27, 2010

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.3**

|

|

[Form of Stock Option Agreement under 2003 Equity Incentive
Plan.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312510017054/dex103.htm)

|

|

S-1

|

|

333-164593

|

|

10.3

|

|

January 29, 2010

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.4**

|

|

[Amended and Restated 2010 Equity Incentive
Plan.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459018002956/tsla-
ex104_260.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.4

|

|

February 23, 2018

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.5**

|

|

[Form of Stock Option Agreement under 2010 Equity Incentive
Plan.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459017003118/tsla-
ex106_1393.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.6

|

|

March 1, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.6**

|

|

[Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under 2010 Equity Incentive
Plan.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459017003118/tsla-
ex107_1391.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.7

|

|

March 1, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.7**

|

|

[Amended and Restated 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, effective as of
February 1,
2017.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459017003118/tsla-
ex108_1392.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.8

|

|

March 1, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.8**

|

|

[2019 Equity Incentive
Plan.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312519171236/d763161dex42.htm)

|

|

S-8

|

|

333-232079

|

|

4.2

|

|

June 12, 2019

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.9**

|

|

[Form of Stock Option Agreement under 2019 Equity Incentive
Plan.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312519171236/d763161dex43.htm)

|

|

S-8

|

|

333-232079

|

|

4.3

|

|

June 12, 2019

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.10**

|

|

[Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under 2019 Equity Incentive
Plan.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312519171236/d763161dex44.htm)

|

|

S-8

|

|

333-232079

|

|

4.4

|

|

June 12, 2019

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.11**

|

|

[Employee Stock Purchase Plan, effective as of June 12,
2019.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312519171236/d763161dex45.htm)

|

|

S-8

|

|

333-232079

|

|

4.5

|

|

June 12, 2019

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.12**

|

|

[2007 SolarCity Stock Plan and form of agreements used
thereunder.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000119312512416770/d229977dex102.htm)

|

|

S-1(1)

|

|

333-184317

|

|

10.2

|

|

October 5, 2012

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.13**

|

|

[2012 SolarCity Equity Incentive Plan and form of agreements used
thereunder.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000119312512416770/d229977dex103.htm)

|

|

S-1(1)

|

|

333-184317

|

|

10.3

|

|

October 5, 2012

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.14**

|

|

[2010 Zep Solar, Inc. Equity Incentive Plan and form of agreements used
thereunder.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000119312513481066/d646112dex45.htm)

|

|

S-8(1)

|

|

333-192996

|

|

4.5

|

|

December 20, 2013

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.15**

|

|

[Offer Letter between the Registrant and Elon Musk dated October 13,
2008.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312510017054/dex109.htm)

|

|

S-1

|

|

333-164593

|

|

10.9

|

|

January 29, 2010

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.16**

|

|

[Performance Stock Option Agreement between the Registrant and Elon Musk dated
January 21,
2018.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312518035345/d524719ddef14a.htm)

|

|

DEF 14A

|

|

001-34756

|

|

Appendix A

|

|

February 8, 2018

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.17**

|

|

[Maxwell Technologies, Inc. 2005 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan, as amended
through May 6,
2010](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0000319815/000119312510114706/dex101.htm)

|

|

8-K(2)

|

|

001-15477

|

|

10.1

|

|

May 10, 2010

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.18**

|

|

[Maxwell Technologies, Inc. 2013 Omnibus Equity Incentive
Plan](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0000319815/000031981517000043/mxwl060217proxy.htm)

|

|

DEF 14A(2)

|

|

001-15477

|

|

Appendix A

|

|

June 2, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.19

|

|

[Indemnification Agreement, effective as of June 23, 2020, between Registrant
and Elon R.
Musk.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001318605/000156459020033670/tsla-
ex104_150.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.4

|

|

July 28, 2020

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.20

|

|

[Indemnification Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2014, by and between the
Registrant and J.P. Morgan Securities
LLC.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312514084484/d686051dex101.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.1

|

|

March 5, 2014

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.21

|

|

[Form of Call Option Confirmation relating to 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes
Due March 1,
2021.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312514084484/d686051dex103.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.3

|

|

March 5, 2014

|

|  
  
100

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.22

|

|

[Form of Warrant Confirmation relating to 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due
March 1,
2021.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312514084484/d686051dex105.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.5

|

|

March 5, 2014

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.23

|

|

[Form of Call Option Confirmation relating to 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes
due May 15,
2024](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312519135910/d730491dex101.htm).

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.1

|

|

May 3, 2019

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.24

|

|

[Form of Warrant Confirmation relating to 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due
May 15,
2024.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312519135910/d730491dex102.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.2

|

|

May 3, 2019

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.25

|

|

[Supply Agreement between Panasonic Corporation and the Registrant dated
October 5,
2011.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312512081990/d279413dex1050.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.50

|

|

February 27, 2012

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.26

|

|

[Amendment No. 1 to Supply Agreement between Panasonic Corporation and the
Registrant dated October 29,
2013.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312514069681/d668062dex1035a.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.35A

|

|

February 26, 2014

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.27

|

|

[Agreement between Panasonic Corporation and the Registrant dated July 31,
2014.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312514403635/d812482dex101.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.1

|

|

November 7, 2014

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.28

|

|

[General Terms and Conditions between Panasonic Corporation and the Registrant
dated October 1,
2014.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312516735804/d253219dex102.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.2

|

|

October 11, 2016

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.29

|

|

[Letter Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2015, regarding addition of co-
party to General Terms and Conditions, Production Pricing Agreement and
Investment Letter Agreement between Panasonic Corporation and the
Registrant.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459016013195/tsla-
ex1025a_208.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.25A

|

|

February 24, 2016

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.30

|

|

[Amendment to Gigafactory General Terms, dated March 1, 2016, by and among the
Registrant, Panasonic Corporation and Panasonic Energy Corporation of North
America.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312516735804/d253219dex101.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.1

|

|

October 11, 2016

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.31

|

|

[Amended and Restated General Terms and Conditions for Gigafactory, entered
into on June 10, 2020, by and among Registrant, Tesla Motors Netherlands B.V.,
Panasonic Corporation and Panasonic Corporation of North
America](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001318605/000156459020033670/tsla-
ex102_486.htm).

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.2

|

|

July 28, 2020

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.32

|

|

[Production Pricing Agreement between Panasonic Corporation and the Registrant
dated October 1,
2014.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312514403635/d812482dex103.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.3

|

|

November 7, 2014

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.33

|

|

[Investment Letter Agreement between Panasonic Corporation and the Registrant
dated October 1,
2014.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312514403635/d812482dex104.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.4

|

|

November 7, 2014

|

|  
  
101

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.34

|

|

[Amendment to Gigafactory Documents, dated April 5, 2016, by and among the
Registrant, Panasonic Corporation, Panasonic Corporation of North America and
Panasonic Energy Corporation of North
America.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459016018886/tsla-
ex102_181.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.2

|

|

May 10, 2016

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.35

|

|

[2019 Pricing Agreement (Japan Cells) with respect to 2011 Supply Agreement,
executed September 20, 2019, by and among the Registrant, Tesla Motors
Netherlands B.V., Panasonic Corporation and SANYO Electric Co.,
Ltd.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459019038256/tsla-
ex106_429.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.6

|

|

October 29, 2019

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.36

|

|

[2020 Pricing Agreement (Gigafactory 2170 Cells), entered into on June 9,
2020, by and among Registrant, Tesla Motors Netherlands B.V., Panasonic
Corporation and Panasonic Corporation of North
America](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001318605/000156459020033670/tsla-
ex103_487.htm)[.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459020033670/tsla-
ex101_6.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.3

|

|

July 28, 2020

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.37

|

|

[2021 Pricing Agreement (Japan Cells) with respect to 2011 Supply Agreement,
executed December 29, 2020, by and among the Registrant, Tesla Motors
Netherlands B.V., Panasonic Corporation of North America and SANYO Electric
Co.,
Ltd.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459021004599/tsla-
ex1039_377.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.39

|

|

February 8, 2021

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.38

|

|

[Amended and Restated Factory Lease, executed as of March 26, 2019, by and
between the Registrant and Panasonic Energy North America, a division of
Panasonic Corporation of North America, as
tenant.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459019026445/tsla-
ex103_198.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.3

|

|

July 29, 2019

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.39

|

|

[Lease Amendment, executed September 20, 2019, by and among the Registrant,
Panasonic Corporation of North America, on behalf of its division Panasonic
Energy of North America, with respect to the Amended and Restated Factory
Lease, executed as of March 26,
2019.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459019038256/tsla-
ex107_430.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.7

|

|

October 29, 2019

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.40

|

|

[Second Lease Amendment, entered into on June 9, 2020, by and between the
Registrant and Panasonic Energy of North America, a division of Panasonic
Corporation of North America, with respect to the Amended and Restated Factory
Lease dated January 1,
2017](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001318605/000156459020033670/tsla-
ex101_95.htm).

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.1

|

|

July 28, 2020

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.41

|

|

[Amendment and Restatement in respect of ABL Credit Agreement, dated as of
March 6, 2019, by and among certain of the Registrant's and Tesla Motors
Netherlands B.V.'s direct or indirect subsidiaries from time to time party
thereto, as borrowers, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as
documentation agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Morgan
Stanley Senior Funding Inc. and Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agents,
the lenders from time to time party thereto, and Deutsche Bank AG New York
Branch, as administrative agent and collateral
agent.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000119312519095913/d625340dex1068.htm)

|

|

S-4/A

|

|

333-229749

|

|

10.68

|

|

April 3, 2019

|

|  
  
102

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.42

|

|

[First Amendment to Amended and Restated ABL Credit Agreement, dated as of
December 23, 2020, in respect of the Amended and Restated ABL Credit
Agreement, dated as of March 6, 2019, by and among certain of the Registrant's
and Tesla Motors Netherlands B.V.'s direct or indirect subsidiaries from time
to time party thereto, as borrowers, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association,
as documentation agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Goldman Sachs Bank USA,
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding Inc. and Bank of America, N.A., as syndication
agents, the lenders from time to time party thereto, and Deutsche Bank AG New
York Branch, as administrative agent and collateral
agent.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459021004599/tsla-
ex1044_13.htm)

|

|

10-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.44

|

|

February 8, 2021

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.43

|

|

[Agreement for Tax Abatement and Incentives, dated as of May 7, 2015, by and
between Tesla Motors, Inc. and the State of Nevada, acting by and through the
Nevada Governor's Office of Economic
Development.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459015006666/tsla-
ex101_265.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.1

|

|

August 7, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.44

|

|

[Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 11, 2017, by and among the Registrant,
SolarCity and Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC as
representatives of the several initial purchasers named
therein.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459017017989/tsla-
ex101_8.htm)

|

|

8-K

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.1

|

|

August 23, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.45

|

|

[Amended and Restated Agreement For Research & Development Alliance on Triex
Module Technology, effective as of September 2, 2014, by and between The
Research Foundation For The State University of New York, on behalf of the
College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the State University of New
York, and Silevo,
Inc.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000119312514399634/d800656dex1016.htm)

|

|

10-Q(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

10.16

|

|

November 6, 2014

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.46

|

|

[First Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement For Research & Development
Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of October 31, 2014, by and
between The Research Foundation For The State University of New York, on
behalf of the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the State
University of New York, and Silevo,
Inc.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015000897/scty-
ex1016a_20141231328.htm)

|

|

10-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

10.16a

|

|

February 24, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.47

|

|

[Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement For Research & Development
Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of December 15, 2014, by and
between The Research Foundation For The State University of New York, on
behalf of the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the State
University of New York, and Silevo,
Inc.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015000897/scty-
ex1016b_20141231327.htm)

|

|

10-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

10.16b

|

|

February 24, 2015

|

|  
  
103

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.48

|

|

[Third Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement For Research & Development
Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of February 12, 2015, by and
between The Research Foundation For The State University of New York, on
behalf of the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the State
University of New York, and Silevo,
Inc.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015003352/scty-
ex1016c_20150331365.htm)

|

|

10-Q(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

10.16c

|

|

May 6, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.49

|

|

[Fourth Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement For Research & Development
Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of March 30, 2015, by and
between The Research Foundation For The State University of New York, on
behalf of the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the State
University of New York, and Silevo,
Inc.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015003352/scty-
ex1016d_20150331366.htm)

|

|

10-Q(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

10.16d

|

|

May 6, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.50

|

|

[Fifth Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement For Research & Development
Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of June 30, 2015, by and
between The Research Foundation For The State University of New York, on
behalf of the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the State
University of New York, and Silevo,
LLC.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015005816/scty-
ex1016e_501.htm)

|

|

10-Q(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

10.16e

|

|

July 30, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.51

|

|

[Sixth Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement For Research & Development
Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of September 1, 2015, by and
between The Research Foundation For The State University of New York, on
behalf of the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the State
University of New York, and Silevo,
LLC.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015008928/scty-
ex1016f_482.htm)

|

|

10-Q(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

10.16f

|

|

October 30, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.52

|

|

[Seventh Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement For Research &
Development Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of October 9,
2015, by and between The Research Foundation For The State University of New
York, on behalf of the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the
State University of New York, and Silevo,
LLC](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015008928/scty-
ex1016g_483.htm).

|

|

10-Q(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

10.16g

|

|

October 30, 2015

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.53

|

|

[Eighth Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement For Research & Development
Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of October 26, 2015, by and
between The Research Foundation For The State University of New York, on
behalf of the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the State
University of New York, and Silevo,
LLC.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459015008928/scty-
ex1016h_484.htm)

|

|

10-Q(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

10.16h

|

|

October 30, 2015

|

|  
  
104

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.54

|

|

[Ninth Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement For Research & Development
Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of December 9, 2015, by and
between The Research Foundation For The State University of New York, on
behalf of the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the State
University of New York, and Silevo,
LLC.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1408356/000156459016012549/scty-
ex1016i_497.htm)

|

|

10-K(1)

|

|

001-35758

|

|

10.16i

|

|

February 10, 2016

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.55

|

|

[Tenth Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement For Research & Development
Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of March 31, 2017, by and
between The Research Foundation For The State University of New York, on
behalf of the Colleges of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the State
University of New York, and Silevo,
LLC.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001318605/000156459017009968/tsla-
ex108_955.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.8

|

|

May 10, 2017

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.56

|

|

[Eleventh Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement for Research &
Development Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of July 22,
2020, among the Research Foundation for the State University of New York,
Silevo, LLC and Tesla Energy Operations,
Inc](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459020033670/tsla-
ex106_310.htm).

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.6

|

|

July 28, 2020

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.57

|

|

[Twelfth Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement for Research &
Development Alliance on Triex Module Technology, effective as of May 1, 2021,
among the Research Foundation for the State University of New York, Silevo,
LLC and Tesla Energy Operations,
Inc](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000095017021002253/tsla-
ex10_1.htm).

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.1

|

|

October 25, 2021

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.58

|

|

[Grant Contract for State-Owned Construction Land Use Right, dated as of
October 17, 2018, by and between Shanghai Planning and Land Resource
Administration Bureau, as grantor, and Tesla (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., as grantee
(English
translation).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001318605/000156459019026445/tsla-
ex102_737.htm)

|

|

10-Q

|

|

001-34756

|

|

10.2

|

|

July 29, 2019

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
10.59

|

|

[Credit Agreement, dated as of January 20, 2023, among Tesla, Inc., the
Lenders and Issuing Banks from time to time party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as
Administrative Agent and Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc., as Syndication
Agent](tsla-ex10_59.htm)

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
105

* * *

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Exhibit

|

|

|

|

Incorporated by Reference

|

|

Filed  
  
Number

|

|

Exhibit Description

|

|

Form

|

|

File No.

|

|

Exhibit

|

|

Filing Date

|

|

Herewith  
  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
21.1

|

|

[List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant](tsla-ex21_1.htm)

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
23.1

|

|

[Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm](tsla-ex23_1.htm)

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
31.1

|

|

[Rule 13a-14(a) / 15(d)-14(a) Certification of Principal Executive
Officer](tsla-ex31_1.htm)

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
31.2

|

|

[Rule 13a-14(a) / 15(d)-14(a) Certification of Principal Financial
Officer](tsla-ex31_2.htm)

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
32.1*

|

|

[Section 1350 Certifications](tsla-ex32_1.htm)

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
101.INS

|

|

Inline XBRL Instance Document

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
101.SCH

|

|

Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
101.CAL

|

|

Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
101.DEF

|

|

Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
101.LAB

|

|

Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
101.PRE

|

|

Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

--

|

|

X  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
104

|

|

Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as inline XBRL with applicable
taxonomy extension information contained in Exhibits 101)

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
* Furnished herewith

** Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

 Confidential treatment has been requested for portions of this exhibit

 Portions of this exhibit have been redacted in compliance with Regulation
S-K Item 601(b)(10).

(1) Indicates a filing of SolarCity

(2) Indicates a filing of Maxwell Technologies, Inc.

ITEM 16. SUMMARY

None.

106

* * *

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

|  |  
---|---|---  
  
|

|

Tesla, Inc.  
  
|

|  
  
Date: January 30, 2023

|

|

/s/ Elon Musk  
  
|

|

Elon Musk  
  
|

|

Chief Executive Officer  
  
|

|

(Principal Executive Officer)  
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

|  |  |  |  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
Signature

|

|

Title

|

|

Date  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
/s/ Elon Musk

|

|

Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

|

|

January 30, 2023  
  
Elon Musk

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
/s/ Zachary J. Kirkhorn

|

|

Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

|

|

January 30, 2023  
  
Zachary J. Kirkhorn

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
/s/ Vaibhav Taneja

|

|

Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)

|

|

January 30, 2023  
  
Vaibhav Taneja

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
/s/ Robyn Denholm

|

|

Director

|

|

January 30, 2023  
  
Robyn Denholm

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
/s/ Ira Ehrenpreis

|

|

Director

|

|

January 30, 2023  
  
Ira Ehrenpreis

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
/s/ Joseph Gebbia

|

|

Director

|

|

January 30, 2023  
  
Joseph Gebbia

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
/s/ Hiromichi Mizuno

|

|

Director

|

|

January 30, 2023  
  
Hiromichi Mizuno

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
/s/ James Murdoch

|

|

Director

|

|

January 30, 2023  
  
James Murdoch

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
/s/ Kimbal Musk

|

|

Director

|

|

January 30, 2023  
  
Kimbal Musk

|

|

|

|  
  
|

|

|

|  
  
/s/ Kathleen Wilson-Thompson

|

|

Director

|

|

January 30, 2023  
  
Kathleen Wilson-Thompson

|

|

|

|  
  
107

* * *

