false2022FY000007747612/310.01670.0167848484119P5YP05YP5Yhttp://fasb.org/us-

Table of Contents

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
☒| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934  
  
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022

OR

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
☐| TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
  
For the transition period from  to

Commission file number 1-1183

![pep-20221231_g1.jpg](pep-20221231_g1.jpg)

PepsiCo, Inc.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
North Carolina|  | 13-1584302  
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)| | (I.R.S.
Employer Identification No.)  
  
  

700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577

(Address of principal executive offices and Zip Code)

  

(914) 253-2000

Registrant's telephone number, including area code

  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Title of each class| | Trading Symbols| | Name of each exchange on which
registered  
Common Stock, par value 1-2/3 cents per share| | PEP| | The Nasdaq Stock
Market LLC  
0.250% Senior Notes Due 2024| | PEP24| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
2.625% Senior Notes Due 2026| | PEP26| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
0.750% Senior Notes Due 2027| | PEP27| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
0.875% Senior Notes Due 2028| | PEP28| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
0.500% Senior Notes Due 2028| | PEP28a| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
3.200% Senior Notes Due 2029| | PEP29| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
1.125% Senior Notes Due 2031| | PEP31| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
0.400% Senior Notes Due 2032| | PEP32| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
0.750% Senior Notes Due 2033| | PEP33| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
3.550% Senior Notes Due 2034| | PEP34| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
0.875% Senior Notes Due 2039| | PEP39| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
1.050% Senior Notes Due 2050| | PEP50| | The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC  
  
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☒ No ¨

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes ¨ No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such
files). Yes ☒ No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer,"
"accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth
company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Large accelerated filer|

☒

|

Accelerated filer

| ☐  
  
Non-accelerated filer

| ☐|

Smaller reporting company

| ☐  
| |

Emerging growth company

| ☐  
  
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has
elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new
or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a)
of the Exchange Act. ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and
attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting
firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by
check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the
filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial
statements. ¨

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements
that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by
any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period
pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ No ☒

The aggregate market value of PepsiCo, Inc. Common Stock held by nonaffiliates
of PepsiCo, Inc. (assuming for these purposes, but without conceding, that all
executive officers and directors of PepsiCo, Inc. are affiliates of PepsiCo,
Inc.) as of June 10, 2022, the last day of business of our most recently
completed second fiscal quarter, was $224.2 billion (based on the closing sale
price of PepsiCo, Inc.'s Common Stock on that date as reported on the Nasdaq
Global Select Market).

The number of shares of PepsiCo, Inc. Common Stock outstanding as of February
2, 2023 was 1,377,251,316.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the Proxy Statement relating to PepsiCo, Inc.'s 2023 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Form 10-K.

  

* * *

Table of Contents

PepsiCo, Inc.

Form 10-K Annual Report

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022

Table of Contents

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
PART I| |  
Item 1.|

Business

|

2  
  
Item 1A.|

Risk Factors

|

11  
  
Item 1B.|

Unresolved Staff Comments

|

23  
  
Item 2.|

Properties

|

24  
  
Item 3.|

Legal Proceedings

|

24  
  
Item 4.|

Mine Safety Disclosures

|

24  
  
| |  
PART II| |  
Item 5.|

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities

|

28  
  
| |  
Item 7.|

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

|

29  
  
Item 7A.|

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

|

116  
  
Item 8.|

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

|

116  
  
Item 9.|

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

|

116  
  
Item 9A.|

Controls and Procedures

|

116  
  
Item 9B.|

Other Information

|

117  
  
Item 9C.|

Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

|

117  
  
| |  
PART III| |  
Item 10.|

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

|

117  
  
Item 11.|

Executive Compensation

|

117  
  
Item 12.|

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters

|

118  
  
Item 13.|

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

|

118  
  
Item 14.|

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

|

118  
  
| |  
PART IV| |  
Item 15.|

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

|

119  
  
Item 16.|

Form 10-K Summary

|

119  
  
  

  

1

* * *

Table of Contents

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements reflecting our views about
our future performance that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Reform Act).
Statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of
the Reform Act are generally identified through the inclusion of words such as
"aim," "anticipate," "believe," "drive," "estimate," "expect," "expressed
confidence," "forecast," "future," "goal," "guidance," "intend," "may,"
"objective," "outlook," "plan," "position," "potential," "project," "seek,"
"should," "strategy," "target," "will" or similar statements or variations of
such words and other similar expressions. All statements addressing our future
operating performance, and statements addressing events and developments that
we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, are forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. These forward-looking
statements are based on currently available information, operating plans and
projections about future events and trends. They inherently involve risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
predicted in any such forward-looking statement. These risks and uncertainties
include, but are not limited to, those described in "Item 1A. Risk Factors"
and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations - Our Business - Our Business Risks." Investors are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements,
which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to
update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise. The discussion of risks in this report is by no
means all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important
factors to consider when evaluating our future performance.

PART I

Item 1. Business.

When used in this report, the terms "we," "us," "our," "PepsiCo" and the
"Company" mean PepsiCo, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively.
Certain terms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are defined in the
Glossary included in Item 7. of this report.

Company Overview

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1919 and reincorporated in North Carolina
in 1986. We are a leading global beverage and convenient food company with a
complementary portfolio of brands, including Lay's, Doritos, Cheetos,
Gatorade, Pepsi-Cola, Mountain Dew, Quaker and SodaStream. Through our
operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third
parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety of beverages and
convenient foods, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries
and territories.

Our Operations

We are organized into seven reportable segments (also referred to as
divisions), as follows:

1)Frito-Lay North America (FLNA), which includes our branded convenient food
businesses in the United States and Canada;

2)Quaker Foods North America (QFNA), which includes our branded convenient
food businesses, such as cereal, rice, pasta and other branded food, in the
United States and Canada;

3)PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA), which includes our beverage
businesses in the United States and Canada;

4)Latin America (LatAm), which includes all of our beverage and convenient
food businesses in Latin America;

5)Europe, which includes all of our beverage and convenient food businesses in
Europe;

  

2

* * *

Table of Contents

6)Africa, Middle East and South Asia (AMESA), which includes all of our
beverage and convenient food businesses in Africa, the Middle East and South
Asia; and

7)Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand and China Region (APAC), which
includes all of our beverage and convenient food businesses in Asia Pacific,
Australia and New Zealand, and China region.

Frito-Lay North America

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, FLNA makes,
markets, distributes and sells branded convenient foods. These foods include
branded dips, Cheetos cheese-flavored snacks, Doritos tortilla chips, Fritos
corn chips, Lay's potato chips, Ruffles potato chips and Tostitos tortilla
chips. FLNA's branded products are sold to independent distributors and
retailers. In addition, FLNA's joint venture with Strauss Group makes,
markets, distributes and sells Sabra refrigerated dips and spreads.

Quaker Foods North America

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, QFNA makes,
markets, distributes and sells branded convenient foods, which include
cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNA's products include Cap'n
Crunch cereal, Life cereal, Pearl Milling Company syrups and mixes, Quaker
Chewy granola bars, Quaker grits, Quaker oatmeal, Quaker rice cakes, Quaker
Simply Granola and Rice-A-Roni side dishes. QFNA's branded products are sold
to independent distributors and retailers.

PepsiCo Beverages North America

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, PBNA makes, markets
and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under
various beverage brands including Aquafina, Diet Mountain Dew, Diet Pepsi,
Gatorade, Gatorade Zero, Mountain Dew, Pepsi and Propel. PBNA operates its own
bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods
directly to independent distributors and retailers. PBNA also sells
concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent
bottlers, who in turn sell our branded finished goods to independent
distributors and retailers in certain markets. PBNA also, either independently
or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells
ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with Unilever
(under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks, respectively. Further, PBNA
manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from Keurig Dr Pepper
Inc., including Crush, Dr Pepper and Schweppes, and certain juice brands
licensed from Dole Food Company, Inc. and Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc. In
2022, PBNA began to distribute Hard MTN Dew, an alcoholic beverage
manufactured and owned by the Boston Beer Company. In the first quarter of
2022, we sold our Tropicana, Naked and other select juice brands to PAI
Partners, while retaining a 39% noncontrolling interest in a newly formed
joint venture, Tropicana Brands Group (TBG), operating across North America
and Europe (Juice Transaction). In the United States, PepsiCo acts as the
exclusive distributor for TBG's portfolio of brands for small-format and
foodservice customers with chilled direct-store-delivery (DSD). See Note 13 to
our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Latin America

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, LatAm makes,
markets, distributes and sells a number of convenient food brands including
Cheetos, Doritos, Emperador, Lay's, Marias Gamesa, Ruffles, Sabritas,
Saladitas and Tostitos, as well as many Quaker-branded convenient foods. LatAm
also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes,
markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and
finished goods under various beverage brands including 7UP, Diet 7UP,
Gatorade, H2oh!, Manzanita Sol, Mirinda, Pepsi, Pepsi Black, San Carlos and
Toddy. These branded products are sold to authorized and independent bottlers,
independent distributors and retailers. LatAm

  

3

* * *

Table of Contents

also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes,
markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an
international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name).

Europe

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, Europe makes,
markets, distributes and sells a number of convenient food brands including
Cheetos, Doritos, Lay's, Ruffles and Walkers, as well as many Quaker-branded
convenient foods, through consolidated businesses, as well as through
noncontrolled affiliates. Europe also, either independently or in conjunction
with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage
concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands
including 7UP, Diet Pepsi, Lubimy Sad, Mirinda, Pepsi and Pepsi Max. These
branded products are sold to authorized and independent bottlers, independent
distributors and retailers. In certain markets, however, Europe operates its
own bottling plants and distribution facilities. Europe also, as part of its
beverage business, manufactures and distributes SodaStream sparkling water
makers and related products. Further, Europe makes, markets, distributes and
sells a number of dairy products including Agusha, Chudo and Domik v Derevne.
Europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes,
markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an
international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). In
the first quarter of 2022, we sold our Tropicana, Naked and other select juice
brands to PAI Partners, while retaining a 39% noncontrolling interest in TBG,
operating across North America and Europe. See Note 13 to our consolidated
financial statements for further information.

Africa, Middle East and South Asia

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, AMESA makes,
markets, distributes and sells a number of convenient food brands including
Chipsy, Doritos, Kurkure, Lay's, Sasko, Spekko and White Star, as well as many
Quaker-branded convenient foods, through consolidated businesses, as well as
through noncontrolled affiliates. AMESA also makes, markets, distributes and
sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various
beverage brands including 7UP, Aquafina, Mirinda, Mountain Dew and Pepsi.
These branded products are sold to authorized and independent bottlers,
independent distributors and retailers. In certain markets, however, AMESA
operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. AMESA also,
either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets,
distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international
joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name).

Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand and China Region

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, APAC makes,
markets, distributes and sells a number of convenient food brands including
BaiCaoWei, Cheetos, Doritos, Lay's and Smith's, as well as many Quaker-branded
convenient foods, through consolidated businesses, as well as through
noncontrolled affiliates. APAC also makes, markets, distributes and sells
beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various
beverage brands including 7UP, Aquafina, Mirinda, Mountain Dew, Pepsi and
Sting. These branded products are sold to authorized and independent bottlers,
independent distributors and retailers. APAC also, either independently or in
conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-
to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever
(under the Lipton brand name).

Our Distribution Network

Our products are primarily brought to market through DSD, customer warehouse
and distributor networks and are also sold directly to consumers through
e-commerce platforms and retailers. The distribution system used depends on
customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices.

  

4

* * *

Table of Contents

Direct-Store-Delivery

We, our independent bottlers and our distributors operate DSD systems that
deliver beverages and convenient foods directly to retail stores where the
products are merchandised by our employees or our independent bottlers. DSD
enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. DSD is
especially well-suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in-
store promotion and merchandising.

Customer Warehouse

Some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and
distribution centers, both company and third-party operated, to customer
warehouses. These less costly systems generally work best for products that
are less fragile and perishable, and have lower turnover.

Distributor Networks

We distribute many of our products through third-party distributors. Third-
party distributors are particularly effective when greater distribution reach
can be achieved by including a wide range of products on the delivery
vehicles. For example, our foodservice and vending business distributes
beverages and convenient foods to restaurants, businesses, schools and
stadiums through third-party foodservice and vending distributors and
operators.

E-commerce

Our products are also available and sold directly to consumers on a growing
number of company-owned and third-party e-commerce websites and mobile
commerce applications.

Ingredients and Other Supplies

The principal ingredients we use in our beverage and convenient food products
are aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, juice concentrates,
oats, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and
essential oils, and wheat. We also use water in the manufacturing of our
products. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including
polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene resins used for plastic
beverage bottles and film packaging used for convenient foods, aluminum,
glass, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. In addition, we continue to
integrate recyclability into our product development process and support the
increased use of recycled content, including recycled PET, in our packaging.
Fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our
businesses due to their use in our and our business partners' facilities and
the vehicles delivering our products. We employ specialists to secure adequate
supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant
continuous shortages that would prevent us from meeting our requirements. Many
of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open
market. The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we
manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders,
pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. In
addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through
purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. When prices increase, we
may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. In addition, we
continue to make investments to improve the sustainability and resources of
our agricultural supply chain, including the development of our initiative to
advance sustainable farming practices by our suppliers and expanding it
further globally. During 2022, we continued to experience increased commodity,
packaging and other input costs and, in some instances, supply constraints
related to the deadly conflict in Ukraine, the novel coronavirus (COVID-19)
pandemic, the inflationary cost environment, adverse weather conditions,
supply chain disruptions and labor shortages, which has continued into fiscal
2023. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further
information on how we manage our exposure to commodity prices.

We also maintain voluntary supply chain finance agreements with several
participating global financial institutions, pursuant to which our suppliers,
at their sole discretion, may elect to sell their accounts receivable with
PepsiCo to such global financial institutions. These agreements did not have a
material

  

5

* * *

Table of Contents

impact on our business or financial results. See "Our Financial Results - Our
Liquidity and Capital Resources" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for further
information.

Our Brands and Intellectual Property Rights

We own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide
businesses, including Agusha, Amp Energy, Aquafina, Aquafina Flavorsplash,
Arto Lifewtr, Baja Blast, BaiCaoWei, Bare, Bokomo, bubly, Cap'n Crunch, Ceres,
Cheetos, Chester's, Chipsy, Chokis, Chudo, Cracker Jack, Crunchy, Diet
Mountain Dew, Diet Mug, Diet Pepsi, Diet 7UP (outside the United States),
Domik v Derevne, Doritos, Driftwell, Duyvis, Elma Chips, Emperador, Evolve,
Frito-Lay, Fritos, Fruktovy Sad, G2, Gamesa, Gatorade, Gatorade Fit, Gatorade
Zero, Gatorlyte, Grandma's, H2oh!, Hard MTN Dew, Health Warrior, Imunele, J7,
Kas, Kurkure, Lay's, Life, Lifewtr, Liquifruit, Lubimy, Manzanita Sol, Marias
Gamesa, Matutano, Mirinda, Miss Vickie's, Moirs, Mother's, Mountain Dew,
Mountain Dew Code Red, Mountain Dew Game Fuel, Mountain Dew Kickstart,
Mountain Dew Zero Sugar, MTN Dew Energy, Mug, Munchies, Muscle Milk, Near
East, Off the Eaten Path, Paso de los Toros, Pasta Roni, Pearl Milling
Company, Pepsi, Pepsi Black, Pepsi Max, Pepsi Zero Sugar, PopCorners,
Pronutro, Propel, Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Quaker Simply Granola, Rice-A-Roni,
Rockstar Energy, Rold Gold, Ruffles, Sabritas, Safari, Sakata, Saladitas
Gamesa, San Carlos, Sandora, Santitas, Sasko, 7UP (outside the United States),
7UP Free (outside the United States), Sierra Mist, Sierra Mist Zero Sugar,
Simba, Smartfood, Smith's, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SodaStream, Sonric's, Spekko,
Stacy's, Starry, Sting, Stubborn Soda, SunChips, Toddy, Toddynho, Tostitos, V
Water, Vesely Molochnik, Walkers, Weetbix, White Star, Ya and Yachak. We also
hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our
products in certain markets, including Ocean Spray. We also distribute Celsius
energy drinks and various Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. brands, including Dr Pepper in
certain markets, Crush and Schweppes. Joint ventures in which we have an
ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks,
such as Lipton, Sabra and Starbucks. In addition, in the first quarter of
2022, we sold our Tropicana, Naked and other select juice brands to PAI
Partners, while retaining a 39% noncontrolling interest in TBG, operating
across North America and Europe. In the United States, PepsiCo acts as the
exclusive distributor for TBG's portfolio of brands for small-format and
foodservice customers with chilled DSD. See Note 13 to our consolidated
financial statements for further information. In 2022, we began to distribute
Hard MTN Dew, an alcoholic beverage manufactured and owned by the Boston Beer
Company. We have licensed the use of the Hard MTN Dew trademark to the Boston
Beer Company, which has appointed us as their distributor for this product.
Trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification
purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have authorized,
through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such
contexts as convenient food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments.
In addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold
at retail, which enhances brand awareness.

We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to
certain of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production
and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. Some
of these patents are licensed to others.

Seasonality

Our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. Our beverage and
convenient food sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to
seasonal and holiday-related patterns and generally lowest in the first
quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality has not had a material impact
on our consolidated financial results.

  

6

* * *

Table of Contents

Our Customers

Our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers,
grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass
merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e-commerce retailers and
authorized independent bottlers, among others. We normally grant our
independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain
beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area.
These arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent
bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify
the manufacturing process required for product quality. We also grant
distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products
bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas.

We rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the
distribution and promotion of our products to the consumer. For our
independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume-based
rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. For our independent
bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are
negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and
consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new
product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. Consumer
incentives include pricing discounts and promotions, and other promotional
offers. Advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting
independent bottler media. New product support includes targeted consumer and
retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase
materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. Vending and cooler
equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending
machines and cooler equipment. The nature and type of programs vary annually.

Changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail
ownership, the continued growth of sales through e-commerce websites and
mobile commerce applications, including through subscription services and
other direct-to-consumer businesses, the integration of physical and digital
operations among retailers, as well as the international expansion of hard
discounters, and the current economic environment continue to increase the
importance of major customers. In 2022, sales to Walmart Inc. (Walmart) and
its affiliates, including Sam's Club (Sam's), represented approximately 14% of
our consolidated net revenue, with sales reported across all of our divisions,
including concentrate sales to our independent bottlers, which were used in
finished goods sold by them to Walmart. The loss of this customer would have a
material adverse effect on our FLNA, QFNA and PBNA divisions.

Our Competition

Our beverage and convenient food products are in highly competitive categories
and markets and compete against products of international beverage and
convenient food companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as
well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and economy brands and
other competitors, including smaller companies developing and selling micro
brands directly to consumers through e-commerce platforms or through retailers
focused on locally-sourced products. In many countries in which our products
are sold, including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary
beverage competitor. Other beverage and convenient food competitors include,
but are not limited to, Campbell Soup Company, Conagra Brands, Inc., Hormel
Foods Corporation, Kellogg Company, Keurig Dr Pepper Inc., The Kraft Heinz
Company, Link Snacks, Inc., Mondelēz International, Inc., Monster Beverage
Corporation, Nestle S.A., Red Bull GmbH and Utz Brands, Inc.

Many of our convenient food products hold significant leadership positions in
the convenient food industry in the United States and worldwide. In 2022, we
and The Coca-Cola Company represented approximately 20% and 21%, respectively,
of the U.S. liquid refreshment beverage category by estimated retail sales in
measured channels, according to Information Resources, Inc. However, The Coca-
Cola Company has significant carbonated soft drink (CSD) share advantage in
many markets outside the United States.

  

7

* * *

Table of Contents

Our beverage and convenient food products compete primarily on the basis of
brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety,
innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity
(including digital), packaging, convenience, service and the ability to
anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends,
including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and sustainability
and the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of distributing
and purchasing products. Success in this competitive environment is dependent
on effective promotion of existing products, effective introduction of new
products and reformulations of existing products, increased efficiency in
production techniques, effective incorporation of technology and digital tools
across all areas of our business, the effectiveness of our advertising
campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging and pricing, new vending and
dispensing equipment and brand and trademark development and protection. We
believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled
with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network,
allows us to compete effectively.

Research and Development

We engage in a variety of research and development activities and invest in
innovation globally with the goal of meeting the needs of our customers and
consumers and accelerating growth. These activities principally involve:
innovations focused on creating consumer preferred products to grow and
transform our portfolio through development of new technologies, ingredients,
flavors and substrates; development and improvement of our manufacturing
processes, including reductions in cost and environmental footprint;
implementing product improvements to our global portfolio that reduce added
sugars, sodium or saturated fat; offering more products with functional
ingredients and positive nutrition including whole grains, fruit, vegetables,
dairy, protein, fiber, micronutrients and hydration; development of packaging
technology and new package designs, including reducing the amount of plastic
in our packaging and developing recyclable, compostable, biodegradable or
otherwise sustainable packaging; development of marketing, merchandising and
dispensing equipment; further expanding our beyond the bottle portfolio
including innovation for our SodaStream business; investments in technology
and digitalization, including artificial intelligence and data analytics to
enhance our consumer insights and research; continuing to strengthen our
omnichannel capabilities, particularly in e-commerce; and efforts focused on
reducing our impact on the environment, including reducing water use in our
operations and our agricultural practices and reducing our environmental
impact in our operations throughout our value chain.

Our research centers are located around the world, including in Brazil, China,
India, Ireland, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the
United States, and leverage consumer insights, food science and engineering to
meet our strategy to continually innovate our portfolio of beverages and
convenient foods.

Regulatory Matters

The conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage,
distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content,
quality, safety, transportation, packaging, disposal, recycling and use of our
products, as well as our employment and occupational health and safety
practices and protection of personal information, are subject to various laws
and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies
in the United States, as well as to laws and regulations administered by
government entities and agencies in the more than 200 other countries and
territories in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold.
It is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that
apply to our businesses.

The U.S. laws and regulations that we are subject to include, but are not
limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and various state laws
governing food safety; the Food Safety Modernization Act; the Occupational
Safety and Health Act and various state laws and regulations governing
workplace health

  

8

* * *

Table of Contents

and safety; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws, as
discussed below; the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act; the Federal Trade
Commission Act; the Lanham Act; various federal and state laws and regulations
governing competition and trade practices, including the Robinson-Patman Act
and the Clayton Act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing
our employment practices, including those related to equal employment
opportunity, such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and the National
Labor Relations Act and those related to overtime compensation, such as the
Fair Labor Standards Act; various state and federal laws pertaining to sale
and distribution of alcohol beverages; data privacy and personal data
protection laws and regulations, including the California Consumer Privacy Act
of 2018 (as modified by the California Privacy Rights Act); customs and
foreign trade laws and regulations, including laws regarding the import or
export of our products or ingredients used in our products and tariffs; laws
regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools; laws regulating the
ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products; laws
regulating our supply chain, including the 2010 California Transparency in
Supply Chains Act and laws relating to the payment of taxes. We are also
required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Trade
Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act. We are also subject to various
state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection
laws such as Proposition 65 in California, which requires that a specific
warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the State of
California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects, unless the
amount of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level.

We are subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the
United States, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing
food safety, international trade and tariffs, supply chains, including the
U.K. Modern Slavery Act, occupational health and safety, competition, anti-
corruption and data privacy, including the European Union General Data
Protection Regulation. In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws
is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those
jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws, including the U.K.
Bribery Act. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as
in-house and outside counsel and other experts, to guide our businesses in
complying with the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our
businesses.

In addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering
imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, distribution or sale of
our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our
products or commodities used in the production of our products. These taxes
vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric
beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener
(e.g., sugar). Similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per
ounce/liter on beverages containing over a certain level of added sugar (or
other sweetener) while others apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the
amount of added sugar (or other sweetener) in the beverage and some apply a
flat tax rate on beverages containing a particular substance or ingredient,
regardless of the level of such substance or ingredient.

In addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering
imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or other limitations on the
marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or
substances contained in such products or the audience to whom products are
marketed. These types of provisions have required that we highlight perceived
concerns about a product, warn consumers to avoid consumption of certain
ingredients or substances present in our products, restrict the age of
consumers to whom products are marketed or sold or limit the location in which
our products may be available. It is possible that similar or more restrictive
requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future.

In addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed or are considering
imposing regulations designed to increase recycling rates, encourage waste
reduction or to restrict the sale of products utilizing certain packaging.
These regulations vary in scope and form from deposit return systems designed
to incentivize

  

9

* * *

Table of Contents

the return of beverage containers, to extended producer responsibility
policies and even restrictions or bans on the use of certain types of
packaging, including single-use plastics and packaging containing per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). It is possible that similar or more
restrictive requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future.

We are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the United
States and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws
related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater discharge and air
emissions. In the United States, we are subject to the Clean Air Act, the
Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal,
state and local laws and regulations regarding handling, storage, release and
disposal of wastes generated onsite and sent to third-party owned and operated
offsite licensed facilities. Our operations outside the United States are
subject to similar laws and regulations. In addition, continuing concern over
environmental, social and governance matters, including climate change, is
expected to continue to result in new or increased legal and regulatory
requirements (in or outside of the United States) to reduce emissions to
mitigate the potential effects of greenhouse gases, to limit or impose
additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns
or to expand mandatory reporting of certain environmental, social and
governance metrics. Our policy is to abide by all applicable environmental
laws and regulations, and we have internal programs in place with respect to
our global environmental compliance. We have made, and plan to continue
making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental
laws and regulations and to achieve our sustainability goals. While these
expenditures have not had a material impact on our business, financial
condition or results of operations to date, changes in environmental
compliance requirements, and expenditures necessary to comply with such
requirements or to achieve our sustainability goals, could adversely affect
our financial performance. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to
environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of
business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in
connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations,
including those of businesses or properties acquired by us or our
subsidiaries. While these environmental remediation and indemnification
obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, such obligations have not had,
and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures,
earnings or competitive position.

In addition to the discussion in this section, see also "Item 1A. Risk
Factors."

Human Capital

PepsiCo believes that human capital management, including attracting,
developing and retaining a high quality workforce, is critical to our long-
term success. Our Board of Directors (Board) and its Committees provide
oversight on a broad range of human capital management topics, including
corporate culture, diversity, equity and inclusion, pay equity, health and
safety, training and development and compensation and benefits.

We employed approximately 315,000 people worldwide as of December 31, 2022,
including approximately 132,000 people within the United States. We are party
to numerous collective bargaining agreements and believe that relations with
our employees are generally good.

Protecting the safety, health, and well-being of our associates around the
world is PepsiCo's top priority. We strive to achieve an injury-free work
environment. We also continue to invest in emerging technologies to protect
our employees from injuries, including leveraging fleet telematics and
distracted driving technology, resulting in reductions in road traffic
incidents, and deploying ergonomic and machine safety risk reduction
solutions. In addition, throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have remained
focused on the health and safety of our associates, especially our frontline
associates who continue to make, move and sell our products during this
critical time, including by continuing to implement various safety protocols
in our facilities, providing personal protective equipment and enabling
testing. We are

  

10

* * *

Table of Contents

also focused on the safety of our associates in Ukraine and have provided
humanitarian aid, goods and services to support our people and communities
facing the ongoing deadly conflict.

We believe that our culture of diversity, equity and inclusion is a
competitive advantage that fuels innovation, enhances our ability to attract
and retain talent and strengthens our reputation. We continually strive to
improve the attraction, retention, and advancement of diverse associates to
ensure we sustain a high-caliber pipeline of talent that also represents the
communities we serve. As of December 31, 2022, our global workforce was
approximately 27% female, while management roles were approximately 44%
female. As of December 31, 2022, approximately 48% of our U.S. workforce was
comprised of racially/ethnically diverse individuals, of which approximately
33% of our U.S. associates in managerial roles were racially/ethnically
diverse individuals. The Board has overseen appointments of current direct
reports of our Chief Executive Officer, who include 7 executives globally who
are racially/ethnically diverse and/or female.

We are also committed to the continued growth and development of our
associates. PepsiCo supports and develops its associates through a variety of
global training and development programs that build and strengthen employees'
leadership and professional skills, including career development plans,
mentoring programs and in-house learning opportunities, such as PEP U Degreed,
our internal global online learning resource. In 2022, PepsiCo employees
completed over 1 million hours of training.

Available Information

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy
statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports,
proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are also available free of charge on our
Internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable
after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Investors should note that we currently announce material information to our
investors and others using filings with the SEC, press releases, public
conference calls, webcasts or our corporate website (www.pepsico.com),
including news and announcements regarding our financial performance, key
personnel, our brands and our business strategy. Information that we post on
our corporate website could be deemed material to investors. We encourage
investors, the media, our customers, consumers, business partners and others
interested in us to review the information we post on these channels. We may
from time to time update the list of channels we will use to communicate
information that could be deemed material and will post information about any
such change on www.pepsico.com. The information on our website is not, and
shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of
our other filings with the SEC.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

The following risks, some of which have occurred and any of which may occur in
the future, can have a material adverse effect on our business or financial
performance, which in turn can affect the price of our publicly traded
securities. These are not the only risks we face. There may be other risks we
are not currently aware of or that we currently deem not to be material but
that may become material in the future.

  

11

* * *

Table of Contents

Business Risks

Risks associated with the deadly conflict in Ukraine

The deadly conflict in Ukraine has continued to result in worldwide
geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainty and certain of our operations in
Ukraine remain suspended. The conflict has resulted and could continue to
result in volatile commodity markets, supply chain disruptions, increased risk
of cyber incidents or other disruptions to our information systems,
reputational risk, heightened risks to employee safety, business disruptions
(including labor shortages), significant volatility of the Russian ruble,
limitations on access to credit markets and other corporate banking services,
including working capital facilities, reduced availability and increased costs
for transportation, energy, packaging and raw materials and other input costs,
environmental, health and safety risks related to securing and maintaining
facilities, additional sanctions, export controls and other legislation or
regulations (including restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from
Russia). The ongoing conflict could result in the temporary or permanent loss
of assets or result in additional impairment charges. We cannot predict how
and the extent to which the conflict will continue to affect our employees,
operations, customers, consumers or business partners or our ability to
achieve certain of our sustainability goals. The conflict has adversely
affected and could continue to adversely affect demand for our products and
our global business.

Reduction in future demand for our products would adversely affect our
business.

Demand for our products depends in part on our ability to innovate and
anticipate and effectively respond to shifts in consumer trends and
preferences, including the types of products our consumers want and how they
browse for, purchase and consume them. Consumer preferences continuously
evolve due to a variety of factors, including: changes in consumer
demographics, consumption patterns and channel preferences (including
continued increases in the e-commerce and online-to-offline channels);
pricing; product quality; concerns or perceptions regarding packaging and its
environmental impact (such as single-use and other plastic packaging); and
concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile and health effects of,
or location of origin of, ingredients or substances in our products or
packaging, including due to the results of third-party studies (whether or not
scientifically valid). Concerns with any of the foregoing could lead consumers
to reduce or publicly boycott the purchase or consumption of our products.
Pandemics, epidemics or other disease outbreaks, such as COVID-19, have also
impacted and could continue to impact consumer preferences and demand for our
products. Consumer preferences are also influenced by perception of our brand
image or the brand images of our products, the success of our advertising and
marketing campaigns, our ability to engage with our consumers in the manner
they prefer, including through the use of digital media or assets, and the
perception of our use, the use of social media and our response to political
and social issues or catastrophic events. These and other factors have reduced
in the past and could continue to reduce consumers' willingness to purchase
certain of our products. Any inability on our part to anticipate or react to
changes in consumer preferences and trends, or make the right strategic
investments to do so, including investments in data analytics to understand
consumer trends, can lead to reduced demand for our products, lead to
inventory write-offs or erode our competitive and financial position, thereby
adversely affecting our business. In addition, our business operations,
including our supply chain, are subject to disruption by natural disasters,
pandemics, epidemics or other events beyond our control that could negatively
impact product availability and decrease demand for our products if our crisis
management plans do not effectively mitigate these issues.

Damage to our reputation or brand image can adversely affect our business.

Maintaining a positive reputation globally is critical to selling our
products. Our reputation or brand image has in the past been, and could in the
future be, adversely impacted by a variety of factors, including: any failure
by us or our business partners to maintain high ethical, business and
environmental, social and governance practices, including with respect to
human rights, child labor laws, diversity, equity and

  

12

* * *

Table of Contents

inclusion, workplace conditions and employee health and safety; any failure,
or perception of a failure, to achieve our environmental, social and
governance goals, including with respect to the nutrition profile of our
products, diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, packaging, water use
and our impact on the environment; any failure to address health or other
concerns about our products, products we distribute (including alcoholic
beverages), or particular ingredients in our products, including concerns
regarding whether certain of our products contribute to obesity or an increase
in public health costs; our research and development efforts; any product
quality or safety issues, including the recall of any of our products; any
failure to comply with laws and regulations; consumer perception of our
advertising campaigns, sponsorship arrangements, marketing programs, use of
social media and our response to political and social issues or catastrophic
events; or any failure to effectively respond to negative or inaccurate
comments about us on social media or otherwise regarding any of the foregoing.
Damage to our reputation or brand image has in the past and could in the
future decrease demand for our products, thereby adversely affecting our
business.

Product recalls or other issues or concerns with respect to product quality
and safety can adversely affect our business.

We have and could in the future recall products due to product quality or
safety issues, including actual or alleged mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage,
undeclared allergens, adulteration or contamination. Joint ventures in which
we have an interest have also recalled, and could in the future recall,
products for the same or other reasons. Product recalls have in the past and
could in the future adversely affect our business by resulting in losses due
to their cost, the destruction of product inventory or lost sales due to any
unavailability of the product for a period of time. In addition, product
quality or safety issues, whether as a result of failure to comply with food
safety laws or otherwise, have in the past and could in the future also reduce
consumer confidence and demand for our products, cause production and delivery
disruptions, and result in increased costs (including payment of fines and/or
judgments) and damage our reputation (or the reputation of joint ventures in
which we have an interest), particularly as we or our joint ventures continue
to expand into new categories, such as the distribution of alcoholic
beverages, all of which can adversely affect our business. Failure to maintain
adequate oversight over product quality or safety can result in product
recalls, litigation, government investigations or inquiries or civil or
criminal proceedings, all of which may result in fines, penalties, damages or
criminal liability. Our business can also be adversely affected if consumers
lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally, even if
such loss of confidence is unrelated to products in our portfolio.

Any inability to compete effectively can adversely affect our business.

Our products compete against products of international beverage and convenient
food companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as
regional, local and private label and economy brand manufacturers and other
competitors, including smaller companies developing and selling micro brands
directly to consumers through e-commerce platforms or through retailers
focused on locally sourced products. In many countries in which our products
are sold, including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary
beverage competitor. Our products compete primarily on the basis of brand
recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety,
innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity,
packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively
respond to consumer preferences and trends. Our business can be adversely
affected if we are unable to effectively promote or develop our existing
products or introduce and effectively market new products, if we are unable to
effectively adopt new technologies, including artificial intelligence and data
analytics to develop new commercial insights and improve operating
efficiencies, if we are unable to continuously strengthen and evolve our
capabilities in digital marketing, if our competitors spend more aggressively
than we do or if we are otherwise unable to effectively respond to supply
disruptions, pricing pressure (including as a result of commodity inflation)
or otherwise compete effectively, and we may be

  

13

* * *

Table of Contents

unable to grow or maintain sales or category share or we may need to increase
capital, marketing or other expenditures.

Failure to attract, develop and maintain a highly skilled and diverse
workforce or effectively manage changes in our workforce can have an adverse
effect on our business.

Our business requires that we attract, develop and maintain a highly skilled
and diverse workforce. Our employees are highly sought after by our
competitors and other companies and our continued ability to compete
effectively depends on our ability to attract, retain, develop and motivate
highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Our ability to do
so has been and may continue to be impacted by challenges in the labor market,
which has experienced and may continue to experience wage inflation, labor
shortages, increased employee turnover, changes in availability of our
workforce and a shift toward remote work. Any unplanned turnover, sustained
labor shortage or unsuccessful implementation of our succession plans to
backfill current leadership positions, including the Chief Executive Officer,
or failure to attract, develop and maintain a highly skilled and diverse
workforce, including with key capabilities such as e-commerce and digital
marketing and data analytic skills, can deplete our institutional knowledge
base, erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to
increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased
employee benefit costs. In addition, failure to attract, retain and develop
associates from underrepresented communities can damage our business results
and our reputation. Any of the foregoing can adversely affect our business.

Water scarcity can adversely affect our business.

We and our business partners use water in the manufacturing of our products.
Water is also essential to the production of the raw materials needed in our
manufacturing process. Lack of available water of acceptable quality, actions
by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers and
consumers on water scarcity and increasing pressure to conserve and replenish
water in areas of scarcity and stress, including due to the effects of climate
change, can lead to: supply chain disruption; adverse effects on our
operations or the operations of our business partners; higher compliance
costs; increased capital expenditures (including investments in the
development of technologies to enhance water efficiency and reduce
consumption); higher production costs, including less favorable pricing for
water; the interruption or cessation of operations at, or relocation of, our
facilities or the facilities of our business partners; failure to achieve our
goals relating to water use; perception of our failure to act responsibly with
respect to water use or to effectively respond to legal or regulatory
requirements concerning water scarcity; or damage to our reputation, any of
which can adversely affect our business.

Changes in the retail landscape or in sales to any key customer can adversely
affect our business.

The retail landscape continues to evolve, including continued growth in
e-commerce channels and hard discounters. Our business will be adversely
affected if we are unable to maintain and develop successful relationships
with e-commerce retailers and hard discounters, while also maintaining
relationships with our key customers operating in traditional retail channels
(many of whom are also focused on increasing their e-commerce sales). Our
business can be adversely affected if e-commerce channels and hard discounters
take significant additional market share away from traditional retailers or we
fail to find ways to create increasingly better digital tools and capabilities
for our retail customers to enable them to grow their businesses. In addition,
our business can be adversely affected if we are unable to profitably expand
our own direct-to-consumer e-commerce capabilities. The retail industry is
also impacted by increased consolidation of ownership and purchasing power,
particularly in North America, Europe and Latin America, resulting in large
retailers or buying groups with increased purchasing power, impacting our
ability to compete in these areas. Consolidation also adversely impacts our
smaller customers' ability to compete effectively, resulting in an inability
on their part to pay for our products or reduced or canceled orders of our
products. Further, we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our
key

  

14

* * *

Table of Contents

customers, including Walmart, to compete effectively. Any inability to resolve
a significant dispute with any of our key customers, a change in the business
condition (financial or otherwise) of any of our key customers, even if
unrelated to us, a significant reduction in sales to any key customer, or the
loss of any of our key customers can adversely affect our business.

Disruption of our manufacturing operations or supply chain, including
continued increased commodity, packaging, transportation, labor and other
input costs, can adversely affect our business.

We have experienced and could continue to experience disruption in our
manufacturing operations and supply chain. Many of the raw materials and
supplies used in the production of our products are sourced from countries
experiencing civil unrest, political instability or unfavorable economic
conditions. Some raw materials and supplies, including packaging materials,
are available only from a limited number of suppliers or from a sole supplier
or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. There can be no
assurance that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and
relationships with suppliers or that our contingency plans will be effective
to mitigate disruptions that may arise from shortages or discontinuation of
any raw materials and other supplies that we use in the manufacture,
production and distribution of our products or from operational or financial
instability of our key suppliers. Any sustained or significant disruption in
the future to the manufacturing or sourcing of products or materials could
increase our costs and interrupt product supply, which can adversely impact
our business.

The raw materials and other supplies, including agricultural commodities, fuel
and packaging materials, such as recycled PET, transportation, labor and other
supply chain inputs that we use for the manufacturing, production and
distribution of our products are subject to price volatility and fluctuations
in availability caused by many factors, including changes in supply and
demand, supplier capacity constraints, inflation, weather conditions
(including potential effects of climate change), fire, natural disasters,
disease or pests (including the impact of greening disease on the citrus
industry), agricultural uncertainty, health epidemics or pandemics or other
contagious outbreaks (including COVID-19), labor shortages or changes in
availability of our or our business partners' workforce (including the lack of
availability of truck drivers or as a result of COVID-19), strikes or work
stoppages (including by railway workers or other third parties involved in the
manufacture, production and distribution of our products), governmental
incentives and controls (including import/export restrictions, such as new or
increased tariffs, sanctions, quotas or trade barriers), port congestions or
delays, transport capacity constraints, cybersecurity incidents or other
disruptions, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, political
uncertainties, acts of terrorism, governmental instability or currency
exchange rates. Many of our raw materials and supplies are purchased in the
open market and the prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation.
We experienced higher than anticipated commodity, packaging and transportation
costs during 2022, which may continue. When input prices increase unexpectedly
or significantly, we may be unwilling or unable to increase our product prices
or unable to effectively hedge against price increases to offset these
increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins and
operating results.

Political and social conditions can adversely affect our business.

Political and social conditions in the markets in which our products are sold
have been and could continue to be difficult to predict, resulting in adverse
effects on our business. The results of elections, referendums or other
political conditions (including government shutdowns or hostilities between
countries) in these markets have in the past and could continue to impact how
existing laws, regulations and government programs or policies are implemented
or result in uncertainty as to how such laws, regulations, programs or
policies may change, including with respect to tariffs, sanctions,
environmental and climate change regulations, taxes, benefit programs, the
movement of goods, services and people between countries, relationships
between countries, customer or consumer perception of a particular country or
its government and other matters, and has resulted in and could continue to
result in exchange rate fluctuation, volatility in global stock markets and
global economic uncertainty or adversely affect demand

  

15

* * *

Table of Contents

for our products, any of which can adversely affect our business. In addition,
political and social conditions in certain cities throughout the U.S. as well
as globally have resulted in demonstrations and protests, including in
connection with political elections and civil rights and liberties. Our
operations or the operations of our business partners, including the
distribution of our products and the ingredients or other raw materials used
in the production of our products, may be disrupted if such events persist for
a prolonged period of time, including due to actions taken by governmental
authorities in affected cities and regions, which can adversely affect our
business.

Our business can be adversely affected if we are unable to grow in developing
and emerging markets.

Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in developing
and emerging markets, including Mexico, the Middle East, China, South Africa,
Brazil and India. There can be no assurance that our products will be accepted
or be successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to
competition, price, cultural differences, consumer preferences, method of
distribution or otherwise. Our business in these markets has been and could
continue in the future to be impacted by economic, political and social
conditions; acts of war, terrorist acts, and civil unrest, including
demonstrations and protests; competition; tariffs, sanctions or other
regulations restricting contact with certain countries in these markets;
foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets or the assets of
our business partners; government-mandated closure, or threatened closure, of
our operations or the operations of our business partners; restrictions on the
import or export of our products or ingredients or substances used in our
products; highly inflationary economies; devaluation or fluctuation or
demonetization of currency; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from
foreign countries, currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions,
which result in significant cash balances in foreign countries, from time to
time, or can significantly affect our ability to effectively manage our
operations in certain of these markets and can result in the deconsolidation
of such businesses; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems;
increased costs of doing business due to compliance with complex foreign and
U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations,
including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and the
Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act; and adverse consequences,
such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for any failure to comply with
laws and regulations. Our business can be adversely affected if we are unable
to expand our business in developing and emerging markets, effectively
operate, or manage the risks associated with operating, in these markets, or
achieve the return on capital we expect from our investments in these markets.

Changes in economic conditions can adversely impact our business.

Many of the jurisdictions in which our products are sold have experienced and
could continue to experience uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions,
such as high inflation and adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax
rates, which could result in recessions or economic slowdowns; volatile
commodity markets; labor shortages; highly inflationary economies,
devaluation, fluctuation or demonetization of currency; contraction in the
availability of credit; austerity or stimulus measures; the effects of any
default by or deterioration in the creditworthiness of the countries in which
our products are sold; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-
retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or
funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. In addition, we
cannot predict how current or future economic conditions will affect our
business partners, including financial institutions with whom we do business,
and any negative impact on any of the foregoing may also have an adverse
impact on our business.

Future cyber incidents and other disruptions to our information systems can
adversely affect our business.

We depend on information systems and technology, including public websites and
cloud-based services, for many activities important to our business, including
communications within our company, interfacing

  

16

* * *

Table of Contents

with customers and consumers; ordering and managing inventory; managing and
operating our facilities; protecting confidential information, including
personal data we collect; maintaining accurate financial records and complying
with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Our business
has in the past and could in the future be negatively affected by system
shutdowns, degraded systems performance, systems disruptions or security
incidents. These disruptions or incidents may be caused by cyberattacks and
other cyber incidents, network or power outages, software, equipment or
telecommunications failures, the unintentional or malicious actions of
employees or contractors, natural disasters, fires or other catastrophic
events. In addition, the increase in certain of our employees working remotely
has resulted in increased demand on our information technology infrastructure,
which can be subject to failure, disruption or unavailability, and increased
vulnerability to cyberattacks and other cyber incidents. Cyberattacks and
other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, the techniques used to
gain access to information technology systems and data, disable or degrade
service or sabotage systems are constantly evolving and becoming more
sophisticated in nature and are being carried out by groups and individuals
with a wide range of expertise and motives. Cyberattacks and cyber incidents
may be difficult to detect for periods of time and take many forms including
cyber extortion, denial of service, social engineering, introduction of
viruses or malware (such as ransomware), exploiting vulnerabilities in
hardware, software or other infrastructure, hacking, website defacement or
theft of passwords and other credentials, unauthorized use of computing
resources for digital currency mining and business email compromise. As with
other global companies, we are regularly subject to cyberattacks and other
cyber incidents, including the types of attacks and incidents described above.
If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to
continue building and maintaining our information technology infrastructure,
or if we fail to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyberattacks or
other cyber incidents, our business has been and can continue to be adversely
affected, which has resulted in and can continue to result in some or all of
the following: transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, inability to
access our data or systems, lost revenues or other costs resulting from
disruptions or shutdowns of offices, plants, warehouses, distribution centers
or other facilities, intellectual property or other data loss, litigation,
claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations, fines or
penalties, remediation costs, damage to our reputation or a negative impact on
employee morale and the loss of current or potential customers. In addition,
these risks also exist in acquired businesses, joint ventures or companies we
invest in or partner with that use separate information systems or that have
not yet been fully integrated into our information systems.

Similar risks exist with respect to our business partners and third-party
providers, including suppliers, software and cloud-based service providers,
that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services
and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit
plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and the
systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by such third parties and their
vendors. For example, malicious actors have employed and could continue to
employ the information technology supply chain to introduce malware through
software updates or compromised supplier accounts or hardware. The need to
coordinate with various third-party service providers, including with respect
to timely notification and access to personnel and information concerning an
incident, may complicate our efforts to address issues that arise. As a
result, we are subject to the risk that the activities associated with our
third-party service providers can adversely affect our business even if the
attack or breach does not directly impact our systems or information.

Although the cyber incidents and other systems disruptions that we have
experienced to date have not had a material effect on our business, such
incidents or disruptions could have a material adverse effect on us in the
future. While we devote significant resources to network security, disaster
recovery, employee training and other measures to secure our information
technology systems and prevent unauthorized access to or loss of data, there
are no guarantees that they will be adequate to safeguard against all cyber
incidents, systems disruptions, system compromises or misuses of data. In
addition, while we currently

  

17

* * *

Table of Contents

maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is
intended to address costs associated with certain aspects of cyber incidents
and information systems failures, this insurance coverage may not, depending
on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding an incident, cover all
losses or all types of claims that arise from an incident, or the damage to
our reputation or brands that may result from an incident.

Failure to successfully complete or manage strategic transactions can
adversely affect our business.

We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential
acquisitions, joint ventures, distribution agreements, divestitures,
refranchisings and other strategic transactions. The success of these
transactions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to realize the
full extent of the expected returns, benefits, cost savings or synergies as a
result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; and
receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals. Risks associated with
strategic transactions include integrating manufacturing, distribution, sales,
accounting, financial reporting and administrative support activities and
information technology systems with our company or difficulties separating
such personnel, activities and systems in connection with divestitures;
operating through new business models or in new categories or territories;
motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming
controls (including internal control over financial reporting, disclosure
controls and procedures and data protection and cybersecurity) and policies
(including with respect to environmental compliance, health and safety
compliance and compliance with anti-bribery laws); retaining existing
customers and consumers and attracting new customers and consumers; managing
tax costs or inefficiencies; maintaining good relations with divested or
refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain; inability to offset loss
of revenue associated with divested brands or businesses; managing the impact
of business decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture
partners that may have different interests than we do; and other unanticipated
problems or liabilities, such as contingent liabilities and litigation.
Strategic transactions that are not successfully completed or managed
effectively, or our failure to effectively manage the risks associated with
such transactions, have in the past and could continue to result in adverse
effects on our business.

Our reliance on third-party service providers and enterprise-wide systems can
have an adverse effect on our business.

We rely on third-party service providers, including cloud data service
providers, for certain areas of our business, including payroll processing,
health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting
functions. Failure by these third parties to meet their contractual,
regulatory and other obligations to us, or our failure to adequately monitor
their performance, has in the past and could continue to result in our
inability to achieve the expected cost savings or efficiencies and result in
additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending
on the function involved, such errors can also lead to business disruption,
systems performance degradation, processing inefficiencies or other systems
disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data
through security breaches or otherwise, incorrect or adverse effects on
financial reporting, litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings,
inquiries or investigations, fines or penalties, remediation costs, damage to
our reputation or have a negative impact on employee morale, all of which can
adversely affect our business.

In addition, we continue on our multi-year phased business transformation
initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including our financial
processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions and have begun to
roll out these systems in certain countries and divisions. We have experienced
and could continue to experience systems outages and operating inefficiencies
following these planned implementations. In addition, if we do not allocate
and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper
information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected
benefits from this initiative, our business could be adversely affected.

  

18

* * *

Table of Contents

Climate change or measures to address climate change can negatively affect our
business or damage our reputation.

Climate change may increase the frequency or severity of natural disasters and
other extreme weather conditions (including rising temperatures and drought),
which could pose physical risks to our facilities, impair our production
capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products.
Climate change may also have a negative effect on agricultural production
resulting in decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain
commodities that are necessary for our products, such as potatoes, sugar cane,
corn, wheat, rice, oats, oranges and other commodities. Also, there is an
increased focus in many jurisdictions in which our products are made,
manufactured, distributed or sold regarding environmental policies relating to
climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions, energy policies and
sustainability, including single-use plastics. This increased focus may result
in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements, such as potential
carbon pricing programs or revised product labeling requirements or other
regulatory measures, which could, along with initiatives to meet our
sustainability goals, continue to result in significant increased costs and
require additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the
effects of climate change can negatively affect our business and operations.
In addition, any failure to achieve or properly report on our goals with
respect to reducing our impact on the environment or perception of a failure
to act responsibly with respect to the environment or to effectively respond
to regulatory requirements concerning climate change can lead to adverse
publicity, which could result in reduced demand for our products, damage to
our reputation or increase the risk of litigation. Any of the foregoing can
adversely affect our business.

Strikes or work stoppages can cause our business to suffer.

Many of our employees and employees of third parties that are involved in the
manufacturing, production or distribution of our products are covered by
collective bargaining agreements, and other employees may seek to be covered
by collective bargaining agreements. Strikes or work stoppages or other
business interruptions have occurred and may occur in the future if we or the
third parties that are involved in the manufacturing, production and
distribution of our products are unable to renew, or enter into new,
collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms and can impair
manufacturing and distribution of our products, interrupt product supply, lead
to a loss of sales, increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to
fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to
adapt to changing business needs or strategy, all of which can adversely
affect our business.

Financial Risks

Failure to realize benefits from our productivity initiatives can adversely
affect our financial performance.

Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to continue to reduce costs
and improve efficiencies, including our multi-year phased implementation of
shared business service organizational models. We continue to identify and
implement productivity initiatives that we believe will position our business
for long-term sustainable growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost
structure, improve decision-making and operate more efficiently. Some of these
measures result in unintended consequences, such as business disruptions,
distraction of management and employees, reduced morale and productivity,
unexpected employee attrition, an inability to attract or retain key personnel
and negative publicity. If we are unable to successfully implement our
productivity initiatives as planned or do not achieve expected savings as a
result of these initiatives, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated
benefits, resulting in adverse effects on our financial performance.

A deterioration in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the
future performance of our business can result in an impairment charge that can
adversely affect our results of operations.

We conduct impairment tests on our goodwill and other indefinite-lived
intangible assets annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate that
impairment may have occurred. In addition, amortizable

  

19

* * *

Table of Contents

intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets
are evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating or
macroeconomic environment. A deterioration in our underlying assumptions
regarding the impact of competitive operating conditions, macroeconomic
conditions, including the interest rate environment, or other factors used to
estimate the future performance of any of our reporting units or assets,
including any deterioration in the weighted-average cost of capital based on
market data available at the time, have resulted and could in the future
result in an impairment charge, thereby adversely affecting our results of
operations.

Fluctuations in exchange rates impact our financial performance.

Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars,
the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the United States, where
the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar, are translated into
U.S. dollars. Given our global operations, we also pay for the ingredients,
raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous currencies.
Fluctuations in exchange rates, including as a result of inflation, central
bank monetary policies, currency controls or other currency exchange
restrictions have had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on our
financial performance.

Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets can be adversely
affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.

Rating agencies routinely evaluate us and their ratings are based on a number
of factors, including our cash generating capability, levels of indebtedness,
policies with respect to shareholder distributions and our financial strength
generally, as well as factors beyond our control, such as the state of the
economy and our industry. We expect to maintain Tier 1 commercial paper
access, which we believe will facilitate appropriate financial flexibility and
ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. Any
downgrade or announcement that we are under review for a potential downgrade
of our credit ratings, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, can
increase our future borrowing costs, impair our ability to access capital and
credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, result in a
reduction in our liquidity, or impair our ability to access the commercial
paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically
(and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt
financing), all of which can adversely affect our financial performance.

Legal, Tax and Regulatory Risks

Taxes aimed at our products can adversely affect our business or financial
performance.

Certain jurisdictions in which our products are sold have either imposed, or
are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture,
distribution or sale of certain of our products, particularly our beverages,
as a result of ingredients contained in our products. These taxes vary in
scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages,
while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar).
Similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per ounce/liter on beverages
containing over a certain amount of added sugar (or other sweetener), some
apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar (or other
sweetener) in the beverage and others apply a flat tax rate on beverages
containing any amount of added sugar (or other sweetener). For example, Italy
enacted a flat tax on all beverages, including zero calorie beverages,
effective January 1, 2023, at a rate of EUR 10 cent (0.11 U.S. dollars) per
liter. These tax measures, whatever their scope or form, have in the past and
could continue to increase the cost of certain of our products, reduce overall
consumption of our products or lead to negative publicity, resulting in an
adverse effect on our business and financial performance.

  

20

* * *

Table of Contents

Limitations on the marketing or sale of our products can adversely affect our
business and financial performance.

Certain jurisdictions in which our products are sold have either imposed, or
are considering imposing, limitations on the marketing or sale of our products
as a result of ingredients or substances in our products. These limitations
require that we highlight perceived concerns about a product, warn consumers
to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our
products, restrict the age of consumers to whom products are marketed or sold
or limit the location in which our products may be available. For example,
Brazil and Canada enacted warning labeling requirements in 2022 to indicate
whether a particular pre-packaged food or beverage product is considered to be
high in sugar, sodium or saturated fat. Certain jurisdictions have imposed or
are considering imposing color-coded labeling requirements where colors such
as red, yellow and green are used to indicate various levels of a particular
ingredient, such as sugar, sodium or saturated fat, in products. The
imposition or proposed imposition of additional limitations on the marketing
or sale of our products has in the past and could continue to reduce overall
consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity or leave consumers
with the perception that our products do not meet their health and wellness
needs, resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial
performance.

Laws and regulations related to the use or disposal of plastics or other
packaging materials can adversely affect our business and financial
performance.

We rely on diverse packaging solutions to safely deliver products to our
customers and consumers. Certain of our products are sold in packaging
designed to be recyclable, commercially compostable, biodegradable or
reusable. However, not all packaging is recovered, whether due to lack of
infrastructure or otherwise, and certain of our packaging is not currently
recyclable, commercially compostable, biodegradable or reusable. Packaging
waste not properly disposed of that displays one or more of our brands has in
the past resulted in and could continue to result in negative publicity,
litigation, government action or reduced consumer demand for our products,
adversely affecting our financial performance. Many jurisdictions in which our
products are sold have imposed or are considering imposing laws, regulations
or policies intended to encourage the use of sustainable packaging, waste
reduction or increased recycling rates or to restrict the sale of products
utilizing certain packaging. These laws, regulations and policies vary in form
and scope and include extended producer responsibility policies, plastic or
packaging taxes, restrictions on certain products and materials, requirements
for bottle caps to be tethered to bottles, restrictions or bans on the use of
certain types of packaging, including single-use plastics and packaging
containing PFAS, restrictions on labeling related to recyclability and
requirements to charge deposit fees. For example, the European Union, Peru and
certain states in the United States, among other jurisdictions, have imposed a
minimum recycled content requirement for beverage bottle packaging and similar
legislation is under consideration in other jurisdictions. These laws and
regulations have in the past and could continue to increase the cost of our
products, impact demand for our products, result in negative publicity and
require us and our business partners, including our independent bottlers, to
increase capital expenditures to invest in reducing the amount of virgin
plastic or other materials used in our packaging, to develop alternative
packaging or to revise product labeling, all of which can adversely affect our
business and financial performance.

Failure to comply with personal data protection and privacy laws can adversely
affect our business.

We are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and
regulations in numerous jurisdictions regarding personal data protection and
privacy laws. These laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied
differently from country to country or, within the United States, from state
to state, and can create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. Our efforts
to comply with these laws and regulations, including the California Consumer
Privacy Act, which was significantly modified by the California Privacy Rights
Act, as well as new comprehensive privacy legislation passed in Virginia,
Colorado, Utah and Connecticut, as well as the European Union's General Data
Protection Regulation and China's Personal Information Protection Act, impose
significant costs and challenges that are likely to

  

21

* * *

Table of Contents

continue to increase over time, particularly as additional jurisdictions
continue to adopt similar regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and
regulations or to otherwise protect personal data from unauthorized access,
use or other processing, have in the past and could in the future result in
litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or
investigations, damage to our reputation, fines or penalties, all of which can
adversely affect our business.

Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or disagreements
with tax authorities can adversely affect our financial performance.

Increases in income tax rates or other changes in tax laws, including changes
in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, can adversely affect our
financial performance. For example, economic and political conditions in
countries where we are subject to taxes, including the United States, have in
the past and could continue to result in significant changes in tax
legislation or regulation. For example, numerous countries have agreed to a
statement in support of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development model rules that propose a partial global profit reallocation and
a global minimum tax rate of 15% and European Union member states have
recently agreed to implement the global minimum tax. There can be no assurance
that other individual countries will adopt these changes, or that once adopted
by any country, that these changes will not have adverse effects on our
financial performance. This increasingly complex global tax environment has in
the past and could continue to increase tax uncertainty, resulting in higher
compliance costs and adverse effects on our financial performance. We are also
subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by numerous taxing
authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes. Economic and
political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we
operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, has
made and could continue to make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the
final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation can differ from our
historical provisions and accruals, resulting in an adverse effect on our
financial performance.

If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or if
we are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our
business can be adversely affected.

We possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business,
including ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business
processes and other trade secrets. The laws of various jurisdictions in which
we operate have differing levels of protection of intellectual property. Our
competitive position and the value of our products and brands can be reduced
and our business adversely affected if we fail to obtain or adequately protect
our intellectual property, including our ingredient formulas, or if there is a
change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections afforded
our intellectual property. Also, in the course of developing new products or
improving the quality of existing products, we have in the past been alleged
to have infringed, and could in the future infringe or be alleged to infringe,
on the intellectual property rights of others. Such infringement or
allegations of infringement could result in expensive litigation and damages,
damage to our reputation, disruption to our operations, injunctions against
development, manufacturing, use and/or sale of certain products, inventory
write-offs or other limitations on our ability to introduce new products or
improve the quality of existing products, resulting in an adverse effect on
our business.

Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business can
adversely affect our business.

The conduct of our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations
relating to the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising,
marketing, labeling, content (including whether a product contains genetically
engineered ingredients), quality, safety, transportation, traceability,
sourcing (including pesticide use), packaging, disposal, recycling and use of
our products or raw materials, employment and occupational health and safety,
environmental, social and governance matters and reporting (including climate
change) and data privacy and protection. In addition, in many jurisdictions,

  

22

* * *

Table of Contents

compliance with competition and antitrust laws is of special importance to us
due to our competitive position, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws.
The imposition of new laws, changes in laws or regulatory requirements or
changing interpretations thereof, changes in the enforcement priorities of
regulators, and differing or competing regulations and standards across the
markets where our products or raw materials are made, manufactured,
distributed or sold, have in the past and could continue to result in higher
compliance costs, capital expenditures and higher production costs, or make it
necessary for us to reformulate certain of our products, resulting in adverse
effects on our business. For example, increasing governmental and societal
attention to environmental, social and governance matters has resulted and
could continue to result in new laws or regulatory requirements, including
expanded disclosure requirements that are expected to continue to expand the
nature, scope and complexity of matters on which we are required to report. In
addition, the entry into new markets or categories, including our recent entry
into the alcoholic beverage industry as a distributor, has resulted in and
could continue to result in our business being subject to additional
regulations resulting in higher compliance costs. If one jurisdiction imposes
or proposes to impose new laws or regulations that impact the manufacture,
distribution or sale of our products, other jurisdictions may follow. Failure
to comply with such laws or regulations (or allegations thereof) can subject
us to criminal or civil investigations or enforcement actions, including
voluntary and involuntary document requests, fines, injunctions, product
recalls, penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, all of
which can adversely affect our business. In addition, the results of third-
party studies (whether or not scientifically valid) purporting to assess the
health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances
present in certain of our products or packaging materials have resulted in and
could continue to result in our being subject to new taxes and regulations or
lawsuits that can adversely affect our business.

Potential liabilities and costs from litigation, claims, legal or regulatory
proceedings, inquiries or investigations can have an adverse impact on our
business.

We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of litigation, claims, legal or
regulatory proceedings, inquiries and investigations, including but not
limited to matters related to our advertising, marketing or commercial
practices, product labels, claims and ingredients, personal injury and
property damage, intellectual property rights, privacy, employment, tax and
insurance matters, environmental, social and governance matters and matters
relating to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. These matters
are inherently uncertain and there is no guarantee that we will be successful
in defending ourselves or that our assessment of the materiality of these
matters and the likely outcome or potential losses and established reserves
will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such matters. Responding to
these matters, even those that are ultimately non-meritorious, requires us to
incur significant expense and devote significant resources, and may generate
adverse publicity that damages our reputation or brand image. Any of the
foregoing can adversely affect our business.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports
from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end
of our 2022 year and that remain unresolved.

  

23

* * *

Table of Contents

Item 2\. Properties.

Our principal executive office located in Purchase, New York and our
facilities located in Plano, Texas, all of which we own, are our most
significant corporate properties.

In connection with making, marketing, distributing and selling our products,
each division utilizes manufacturing, processing, bottling and production
plants, warehouses, distribution centers, storage facilities, offices,
including division headquarters, research and development facilities and other
facilities, all of which are either owned or leased.

Significant properties by division are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Property Type| | Location| | Owned/ Leased  
FLNA| Research and development facility| | Plano, Texas| | Owned  
QFNA| Convenient food plant| | Cedar Rapids, Iowa| | Owned  
PBNA| Research and development facility| | Valhalla, New York| | Owned  
PBNA| Concentrate plant| | Arlington, Texas| | Owned  
LatAm| Convenient food plant| | Celaya, Mexico| | Owned  
LatAm| Two convenient food plants| | Vallejo, Mexico| | Owned  
Europe| Convenient food plant| | Leicester, United Kingdom| | Leased  
Europe| Convenient food plant| | Kashira, Russia| | Owned  
Europe| Manufacturing plant| | Lehavim, Israel| | Owned  
Europe| Dairy plant| | Moscow, Russia| |

Owned (a)  
  
AMESA| Convenient food plant| | Riyadh, Saudi Arabia| |

Owned (a)  
  
APAC| Convenient food plant| | Wuhan, China| |

Owned (a)  
  
FLNA, QFNA, PBNA| Shared service center| | Winston Salem, North Carolina| |
Leased  
PBNA, LatAm| Concentrate plant| | Colonia, Uruguay| |

Owned (a)  
  
PBNA, Europe, AMESA| Two concentrate plants| | Cork, Ireland| | Owned  
PBNA, AMESA, APAC| Concentrate plant| | Singapore| |

Owned (a)  
  
All divisions| Shared service center| | Hyderabad, India| | Leased  
  
(a)The land on which these properties are located is leased.

Most of our plants are owned or leased on a long-term basis. In addition to
company-owned or leased properties described above, we also utilize a highly
distributed network of plants, warehouses and distribution centers that are
owned or leased by our contract manufacturers, co-packers, strategic alliances
or joint ventures in which we have an equity interest. We believe that our
properties generally are in good operating condition and, taken as a whole,
are suitable, adequate and of sufficient capacity for our current operations.

Item 3\. Legal Proceedings.

We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of litigation, claims, legal or
regulatory proceedings, inquiries and investigations. While the results of
such litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries and
investigations cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that
the final outcome of the foregoing will not have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See also "Item
1\. Business - Regulatory Matters" and "Item 1A. Risk Factors."

Item 4\. Mine Safety Disclosures.

Not applicable.

  

  

  

24

* * *

Table of Contents

Information About Our Executive Officers

The following is a list of names, ages and backgrounds of our current
executive officers:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Name| | Age | | Title  
David J. Flavell| | 51| | Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary, PepsiCo  
Marie T. Gallagher| | 63| | Senior Vice President and Controller, PepsiCo  
Hugh F. Johnston| | 61| | Vice Chairman, PepsiCo; Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer, PepsiCo  
Ram Krishnan| | 52| |

Chief Executive Officer, International Beverages and Chief Commercial Officer  
  
Ramon L. Laguarta| | 59| | Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer, PepsiCo  
Silviu Popovici| | 55| | Chief Executive Officer, Europe  
Paula Santilli| | 58| | Chief Executive Officer, Latin America  
Ronald Schellekens| | 58| | Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources
Officer, PepsiCo  
Kirk Tanner| | 54| | Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Beverages North America  
Eugene Willemsen| | 55| | Chief Executive Officer, Africa, Middle East, South
Asia  
Steven Williams| | 57| | Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Foods North America  
  
David J. Flavell has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary, PepsiCo since 2021. Mr. Flavell previously held a number
of leadership roles at PepsiCo, including as Senior Vice President, Deputy
General Counsel and Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer for PepsiCo from 2019 to
2021, as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel & Managing Attorney
from 2018 to 2019, as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel & General
Counsel, International and Global Groups from 2017 to 2018, as Senior Vice
President, Deputy General Counsel & General Counsel, Latin America and Frito-
Lay North America from 2016 to 2017, as Senior Vice President, General
Counsel, Latin America and Frito-Lay North America from 2015 to 2016, and as
Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Asia, Middle East and Africa from 2011
to 2015. Before joining PepsiCo in 2011, Mr. Flavell was general counsel for
Danone S.A.'s Asia Pacific and Middle East business. Prior to that, Mr.
Flavell served as senior legal counsel at Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited
and was a partner at Corrs Chambers Westgarth.

Marie T. Gallagher was appointed PepsiCo's Senior Vice President and
Controller in 2011. Ms. Gallagher joined PepsiCo in 2005 as Vice President and
Assistant Controller. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Ms. Gallagher was Assistant
Controller at Altria Corporate Services from 1992 to 2005 and, prior to that,
a senior manager at Coopers & Lybrand.

Hugh F. Johnston was appointed Vice Chairman, PepsiCo in 2015 and Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PepsiCo in 2010. In addition to
providing strategic financial leadership for PepsiCo, Mr. Johnston's portfolio
has included a variety of responsibilities, including leadership of the
Company's information technology function since 2015, the Company's global
e-commerce business from 2015 to 2019, and the Quaker Foods North America
division from 2014 to 2016. He has also held a number of leadership roles
throughout his PepsiCo career, serving as Executive Vice President, Global
Operations from 2009 to 2010, President of Pepsi-Cola North America from 2007
to 2009, Executive Vice President, Operations from 2006 to 2007, and Senior
Vice President, Transformation from 2005 to 2006. Prior to that, he served as
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and
Foods from 2002 through 2005, and as PepsiCo's Senior Vice President of
Mergers and Acquisitions in 2002. Mr. Johnston joined PepsiCo in 1987 as a
Business Planner and held various finance positions until 1999 when he left to
join Merck & Co., Inc. as Vice President, Retail, a position which he held
until he

  

25

* * *

Table of Contents

rejoined PepsiCo in 2002. Prior to joining PepsiCo in 1987, Mr. Johnston was
with General Electric Company in a variety of finance positions.

Ram Krishnan has served as Chief Executive Officer, International Beverages
and Chief Commercial Officer of PepsiCo, effective January 2022. Prior to
that, Mr. Krishnan served as Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial
Officer, PepsiCo, from 2019 to 2021, as President and Chief Executive Officer
of PepsiCo's Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand and China Region from
2018 to 2020, and as PepsiCo's Senior Vice President and Chief Customer
Officer for Walmart, leading PepsiCo's global Walmart customer team, from 2016
to 2017. Mr. Krishnan joined PepsiCo in 2006 and held marketing roles of
increasing responsibility from 2006 to 2016, including as Senior Vice
President and Chief Marketing Officer, Frito-Lay North America from 2014 to
2016, as Senior Vice President, Marketing, Frito-Lay North America from 2012
to 2013 and as Vice President of Global Brands, Frito-Lay North America from
2011 to 2012. Prior to PepsiCo, Mr. Krishnan spent six years at General Motors
Company as a marketing manager for Cadillac.

Ramon L. Laguarta has served as PepsiCo's Chief Executive Officer and a
director on the Board since 2018, and assumed the role of Chairman of the
Board in 2019. Mr. Laguarta previously served as President of PepsiCo from
2017 to 2018. Prior to serving as President, Mr. Laguarta held a variety of
positions of increasing responsibility in Europe, including as Commercial Vice
President of PepsiCo Europe from 2006 to 2008, PepsiCo Eastern Europe Region
from 2008 to 2012, President, Developing & Emerging Markets, PepsiCo Europe
from 2012 to 2015, Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Europe in 2015, and Chief
Executive Officer, Europe Sub-Saharan Africa from 2015 until 2017. From 2002
to 2006, he was General Manager for Iberia Snacks and Juices, and from 1999 to
2001, a General Manager for Greece Snacks. Prior to joining PepsiCo in 1996 as
a marketing vice president for Spain Snacks, Mr. Laguarta worked for Chupa
Chups, S.A., where he worked in several international assignments in Asia,
Europe, the Middle East and the United States. Mr. Laguarta has served as a
director of Visa Inc. since 2019.

Silviu Popovici was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Europe, effective 2019.
Prior to this role, he served as Chief Executive Officer, Europe Sub-Saharan
Africa in 2019 and as President, Europe Sub-Saharan Africa from 2017 to early
2019. Mr. Popovici previously served as President, Russia, Ukraine and CIS
(The Commonwealth of Independent States) from 2015 to 2017, and as President,
PepsiCo Russia from 2013 to 2015. Mr. Popovici joined PepsiCo in 2011
following PepsiCo's acquisition of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC (WBD) and served
as General Manager, WBD Foods Division from 2011 until 2012. Prior to the
acquisition, Mr. Popovici held senior leadership roles at WBD, running its
dairy business from 2008 to 2011 and its beverages business from 2006 to 2008.

Paula Santilli was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Latin America, effective
2019. Previously, she served in various leadership positions at PepsiCo Mexico
Foods, as President from 2017 to 2019, as Chief Operating Officer from 2016 to
2017 and as Vice President and General Manager from 2011 to 2016. Prior to
joining PepsiCo Mexico Foods, she held a variety of roles, including
leadership positions in Beverages in Mexico, as well as in Foods and Snacks in
the Latin America Southern Cone region comprising Argentina, Uruguay and
Paraguay. Ms. Santilli joined PepsiCo in 2001 following PepsiCo's acquisition
of the Quaker Oats Company. At Quaker, she held various roles of increasing
responsibility from 1992 to 2001, including running the regional Quaker Foods
and Gatorade businesses in Argentina, Chile and Uruguay.

Ronald Schellekens was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Human
Resources Officer, PepsiCo, in 2018. Prior to that, Mr. Schellekens served as
Group HR Director of Vodafone Group Services Limited from 2009 to 2018, where
he was responsible for the Vodafone Human Resource Management function, as
well as health and safety, and property and real estate functions. Prior to
joining Vodafone, Mr. Schellekens was executive vice president, human
resources for the global downstream division of Royal Dutch Shell Plc. Prior
to that, he worked for PepsiCo for nine years from 1994 to 2003

  

26

* * *

Table of Contents

in various international, senior human resources roles, including assignments
in Switzerland, Spain, South Africa, the United Kingdom and Poland, where he
was most recently responsible for the Europe, Middle East & Africa region for
PepsiCo Foods International. Prior to that, he served for nine years at AT&T
Inc. in Human Resources.

Kirk Tanner was appointed Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Beverages North
America, effective 2019. Prior to that, Mr. Tanner served as President and
Chief Operating Officer, North America Beverages from 2016 to 2018, Chief
Operating Officer, North America Beverages and President, Global Foodservice
from 2015 to 2016, and President, Global Foodservice from 2014 to 2015. Mr.
Tanner joined PepsiCo in 1992, where he has worked in numerous domestic and
international locations and in a variety of roles, including Senior Vice
President of Frito-Lay North America's West region from 2009 to 2013, Vice
President, Sales of PepsiCo U.K. and Ireland from 2008 to 2009, Region Vice
President of Frito-Lay North America's Mountain region from 2005 to 2008,
Region Vice President of Frito-Lay North America's Mid-America region from
2002 to 2005 and Region Vice President of Frito-Lay North America's California
region from 2000 to 2002.

Eugene Willemsen was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Africa, Middle East,
South Asia, effective 2019. Previously he served as Chief Executive Officer,
Sub-Saharan Africa in 2019 and as Executive Vice President, Global Categories
and Franchise Management from 2015 to 2019. Before that, he led the global
Pepsi-Lipton Joint Venture as President from 2014 to 2015. Prior to such role,
Mr. Willemsen served as PepsiCo's Senior Vice President and General Manager,
South East Europe from 2011 to 2013, as Senior Vice President and General
Manager, Commercial, Europe from 2008 to 2011, as Senior Vice President and
General Manager, Northern Europe from 2006 to 2008, as Vice President, General
Manager, Benelux from 2000 to 2005 and as Commercial Director, Benelux for the
snacks business from 1998 to 2000. Mr. Willemsen joined PepsiCo in 1995 as a
business development manager.

Steven Williams was appointed Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Foods North
America, effective 2019. Prior to this role, Mr. Williams served in leadership
positions for Frito-Lay's U.S. operations, as Senior Vice President,
Commercial Sales and Chief Commercial Officer from 2017 to 2019 and as General
Manager and Senior Vice President, East Division from 2016 to 2017. Prior to
that, he served as General Manager and Senior Vice President, Customer
Management for PepsiCo's global Walmart business from 2013 to 2016, as Sales
Senior Vice President, North American Nutrition from 2011 to 2013 and as Vice
President, Sales, Central Division from 2009 to 2011. Mr. Williams joined
PepsiCo in 2001 as a part of PepsiCo's acquisition of the Quaker Oats Company,
which he joined in 1997 and has held leadership positions of increasing
responsibility in sales and customer management.

Executive officers are elected by our Board, and their terms of office
continue until the next annual meeting of the Board or until their successors
are elected and have qualified. There are no family relationships among our
executive officers.

  

  

27

* * *

Table of Contents

PART II

Item 5\. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

Stock Trading Symbol - PEP.

Stock Exchange Listings - The Nasdaq Global Select Market is the principal
market for our common stock, which is also listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange.

Shareholders - As of February 2, 2023, there were approximately 98,573
shareholders of record of our common stock.

Dividends - We have paid consecutive quarterly cash dividends since 1965. The
declaration and payment of future dividends are at the discretion of the
Board. Dividends are usually declared in February, May, July and November and
paid at the end of March, June and September and the beginning of January. On
February 1, 2023, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $1.15 per share
payable March 31, 2023, to shareholders of record on March 3, 2023. For the
remainder of 2023, the record dates for these dividend payments are expected
to be June 2, September 1 and December 1, 2023, subject to the approval of the
Board. On February 9, 2023, we announced a 10.0% increase in our annualized
dividend to $5.06 per share from $4.60 per share, effective with the dividend
expected to be paid in June 2023. We expect to return a total of approximately
$7.7 billion to shareholders in 2023, comprising dividends of approximately
$6.7 billion and share repurchases of approximately $1.0 billion.

For information on securities authorized for issuance under our equity
compensation plans, see "Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters."

A summary of our common stock repurchases (in millions, except average price
per share) during the fourth quarter of 2022 is set forth in the table below.

Issuer Purchases of Common Stock

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Period|

Total

Number of

Shares

Repurchased(a)

| | Average  
Price Paid  
Per Share| | Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced
Plans or Programs| | Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares
that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs  
9/3/2022| | | | | | | $| 8,821 |  
9/4/2022 - 10/1/2022| 0.9 | | | $| 168.54 | | | 0.9 | | | (153)|  
| | | | | | | 8,668 |  
10/2/2022 - 10/29/2022| 0.2 | | | $| 174.47 | | | 0.2 | | | (46)|  
| | | | | | | 8,622 |  
10/30/2022 - 11/26/2022| 0.4 | | | $| 179.94 | | | 0.4 | | | (67)|  
| | | | | | | 8,555 |  
11/27/2022 - 12/31/2022| 0.3 | | | $| 182.84 | | | 0.3 | | | (55)|  
Total| 1.8 | | | $| 174.04 | | | 1.8 | | | $| 8,500 |  
  
(a)All shares were repurchased in open market transactions pursuant to the $10
billion repurchase program authorized by our Board and publicly announced on
February 10, 2022, which commenced on February 11, 2022 and will expire on
February 28, 2026. Shares repurchased under this program may be repurchased in
open market transactions, in privately negotiated transactions, in accelerated
stock repurchase transactions or otherwise.

  

28

* * *

Table of Contents

Item 7\. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.

| |  
---|---|---  
  
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
OUR BUSINESS|  
Executive Overview|

30  
  
Our Operations|

31  
  
Other Relationships|

31  
  
Our Business Risks|

31  
  
OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS|  
Results of Operations - Consolidated Review|

37  
  
Results of Operations - Division Review|

39  
  
FLNA|

41  
  
QFNA|

41  
  
PBNA|

42  
  
LatAm|

42  
  
Europe|

42  
  
AMESA|

43  
  
APAC|

43  
  
Non-GAAP Measures|

44  
  
Items Affecting Comparability|

46  
  
Our Liquidity and Capital Resources|

49  
  
Material Changes in Line Items in Our Consolidated Financial Statements|

52  
  
Return on Invested Capital|

54  
  
OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES|  
Revenue Recognition|

55  
  
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets|

56  
  
Income Tax Expense and Accruals|

57  
  
Pension and Retiree Medical Plans|

58  
  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME|

60  
  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME|

61  
  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS|

62  
  
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET|

64  
  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY|

65  
  
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS|  
Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions|

66  
  
Note 2 - Our Significant Accounting Policies|

72  
  
Note 3 - Restructuring and Impairment Charges|

76  
  
Note 4 - Intangible Assets|

78  
  
Note 5 - Income Taxes|

81  
  
Note 6 - Share-Based Compensation|

85  
  
Note 7 - Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans|

88  
  
Note 8 - Debt Obligations|

95  
  
Note 9 - Financial Instruments|

97  
  
Note 10 - Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share|

101  
  
|  
Note 11 - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Attributable to PepsiCo|

102  
  
Note 12 - Leases|

103  
  
Note 13 - Acquisitions and Divestitures |

105  
  
Note 14 - Supplemental Financial Information |

108  
  
|  
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM|

110  
  
GLOSSARY|

114  
  
  

29

* * *

Table of Contents

Our discussion and analysis is intended to help the reader understand our
results of operations and financial condition and is provided as an addition
to, and should be read in connection with, our consolidated financial
statements and the accompanying notes. Definitions of key terms can be found
in the glossary. Unless otherwise noted, tabular dollars are presented in
millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect common stock
per share amounts, assume dilution unless otherwise noted, and are based on
unrounded amounts. Percentage changes are based on unrounded amounts.

Discussion in this Form 10-K includes results of operations and financial
condition for 2022 and 2021 and year-over-year comparisons between 2022 and
2021. For discussion on results of operations and financial condition
pertaining to 2020 and year-over-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020,
please refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 25, 2021.

OUR BUSINESS

Executive Overview

PepsiCo is a leading global beverage and convenient food company with a
complementary portfolio of brands, including Lay's, Doritos, Cheetos,
Gatorade, Pepsi-Cola, Mountain Dew, Quaker and SodaStream. Through our
operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third
parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety of beverages and
convenient foods, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries
and territories.

As a global company with deep local ties, we faced many of the same challenges
in 2022 as our consumers, customers, and competitors across the world,
including supply chain disruptions; inflationary pressures; shifting consumer
preferences and behaviors; another year of the COVID-19 pandemic; a worsening
climate crisis; a highly competitive operating environment; a rapidly changing
retail landscape, including the growth in e-commerce; continued macroeconomic
and political volatility, including the deadly conflict in Ukraine; and an
evolving regulatory landscape.

To meet the challenges of today - and those of tomorrow - we are driven by an
approach called pep+ (PepsiCo Positive). pep+ is a strategic end-to-end
transformation of our business, with sustainability and human capital at the
center of how the company will strive to create growth and value by operating
within planetary boundaries and inspiring positive change for the planet and
people. pep+ guides how we are working to transform our business operations,
from sourcing ingredients and making and selling products in a more
sustainable way, to leveraging our more than one billion connections with
consumers each day to take sustainability mainstream and engage people to make
choices that are better for themselves and the planet.

pep+ drives action and progress across three key pillars, bringing together a
number of industry-leading 2030 sustainability goals under a comprehensive
framework:

•Positive Agriculture: We are working to spread regenerative practices to
restore the earth across seven million acres of land, an area approximately
equal to our entire agricultural footprint, sustainably source key crops and
ingredients, and improve the livelihoods of more people in our agricultural
supply chain. In 2022, we elevated a number of external strategic partnerships
and key engagements with this focus, including a partnership with Archer
Daniels Midland Company (ADM) to scale regenerative agriculture across our
shared supply chains, up to 2 million acres; a research agreement with MIT to
develop a more precise measurement of the greenhouse gas impact of
regenerative agriculture practices; a strategic engagement with Corteva
focused on agriculture sustainability, new substrates, and affordability in
food corn and vegetable oils; and a joint effort with a start-up called N-Drip
to scale advantaged micro irrigation technology that can provide water-saving,
crop-enhancing benefits to farmers around the world.

  

30

* * *

Table of Contents

•Positive Value Chain: We are working to build a circular and inclusive value
chain through actions to: achieve net-zero emissions by 2040; become net water
positive by 2030; and introduce more sustainable packaging into the value
chain. Our packaging goals include cutting virgin plastic per serving, using
more recycled content in our plastic packaging, and scaling our SodaStream
business globally, potentially eliminating the need for more than 200 billion
plastic bottles by 2030. In 2022, we also announced a new global packaging
goal intended to double the percentage of all beverage servings delivered
through reusable models from 10% to 20% by 2030. Additionally, we are making
progress on our diversity, equity and inclusion journey around the world. And
we continue to empower each one of our approximately 315,000 employees to make
a positive impact in their communities through our global workforce
volunteering program, One Smile at a Time.

•Positive Choices: We continue working to evolve our portfolio of convenient
food & beverage products so that they are better for the planet and people,
including by incorporating more diverse ingredients in both new and existing
products, prioritizing chickpeas, plant-based proteins and whole grains;
expanding our position in the nuts & seeds category; accelerating our
reduction of added sugars and sodium through the use of science-based targets
across our portfolio; and offering more products with healthier oils. We are
also continuing to scale new business models that require little or no single-
use packaging, including the iconic SodaStream, already sold in more than 45
countries, and the new SodaStream Professional platform, allowing users to
personalize their choices in reusable containers at home or on the go.

We believe these priorities will position our Company for long-term
sustainable growth.

See also "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for further information about risks and
uncertainties that the Company faces.

Our Operations

See "Item 1. Business" for information on our divisions and a description of
our distribution network, ingredients and other supplies, brands and
intellectual property rights, seasonality, customers, competition, research
and development, regulatory matters and human capital. In addition, see Note 1
to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our
divisions and geographic areas.

Other Relationships

Certain members of our Board also serve on the boards of certain vendors and
customers. These Board members do not participate in our vendor selection and
negotiations nor in our customer negotiations. Our transactions with these
vendors and customers are in the normal course of business and are consistent
with terms negotiated with other vendors and customers. In addition, certain
of our employees serve on the boards of Pepsi Bottling Ventures LLC and other
affiliated companies of PepsiCo and do not receive incremental compensation
for such services.

Our Business Risks

Risks Associated with Commodities and Our Supply Chain

During 2022, we continued to experience significantly higher operating costs,
including on transportation, labor and commodity (including energy) costs,
which we expect to continue in 2023. Many of the commodities used in the
production and transportation of our products are purchased in the open
market. The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we
manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders,
pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. A
number of external factors, including the deadly conflict in Ukraine, the
COVID-19 pandemic, the inflationary cost environment, adverse weather
conditions, supply chain disruptions

  

31

* * *

Table of Contents

(including raw material shortages) and labor shortages, have impacted and may
continue to impact transportation, labor and commodity availability and costs.
When prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our
customers without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins and operating
results.

See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on
how we manage our exposure to commodity prices.

Risks Associated with Climate Change

Certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured,
distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or
increased legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the
potential effects of climate change, including regulation of greenhouse gas
emissions and potential carbon pricing programs. These new or increased legal
or regulatory requirements, along with initiatives to meet our sustainability
goals, could result in significant increased costs and additional investments
in facilities and equipment. However, we are unable to predict the scope,
nature and timing of any new or increased environmental laws and regulations
and therefore cannot predict the ultimate impact of such laws and regulations
on our business or financial results. We continue to monitor existing and
proposed laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which our products are
made, manufactured, distributed and sold and to consider actions we may take
to potentially mitigate the unfavorable impact, if any, of such laws or
regulations.

Risks Associated with International Operations

We are subject to risks in the normal course of business that are inherent to
international operations. During the periods presented in this report, certain
jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or
sold, including in certain developing and emerging markets, operated in a
challenging environment, experiencing unstable economic, political and social
conditions, civil unrest, natural disasters, debt and credit issues and
currency controls or fluctuations. We continue to monitor the economic,
operating and political environment in these markets closely, including risks
of additional impairments or write-offs, and to identify actions to
potentially mitigate any unfavorable impacts on our future results.

See Notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of
impairment charges recognized in the year ended December 31, 2022.

Risks Associated with the Deadly Conflict in Ukraine

In addition to the risks associated with international operations discussed
above, we continue to face risks associated with the deadly conflict in
Ukraine. The conflict has continued to result in worldwide geopolitical and
macroeconomic uncertainty, and certain of our operations in Ukraine remain
suspended. We have suspended sales to our customers of Pepsi-Cola and certain
of our other global beverage brands, our discretionary capital investments and
advertising and promotional activities in Russia, which has negatively
impacted and could continue to negatively impact our business. We continue to
offer our other products in Russia. Our operations in Russia accounted for 5%
and 4% of our consolidated net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022
and December 25, 2021, respectively. Russia accounted for 4% and 5% of our
consolidated assets, including 9% and 1% of our consolidated cash and cash
equivalents, and 32% and 35% of our accumulated currency translation
adjustment loss as of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, respectively.
Our operations in Ukraine accounted for 0.2% and 0.5% of our consolidated net
revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021,
respectively. Ukraine accounted for 0.1% and 0.3% of our consolidated assets
as of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, respectively.

  

32

* * *

Table of Contents

The conflict has resulted and could continue to result in volatile commodity
markets, supply chain disruptions, increased risk of cyber incidents or other
disruptions to our information systems, reputational risks, heightened risks
to employee safety, business disruptions (including labor shortages),
significant volatility of the Russian ruble, limitations on access to credit
markets and other corporate banking services, including working capital
facilities, reduced availability and increased costs for transportation,
energy, packaging, raw materials and other input costs, environmental, health
and safety risks related to securing and maintaining facilities, additional
sanctions, export controls and other legislation or regulations (including
restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from Russia). The ongoing
conflict could result in the temporary or permanent loss of assets or
additional impairment charges. We cannot predict how and the extent to which
the conflict will continue to affect our employees, customers, operations or
business partners or our ability to achieve certain of our sustainability
goals. The conflict has adversely affected and could continue to adversely
affect demand for our products and our global business. See Notes 1 and 4 to
our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Russia-Ukraine
conflict charges, including impairment charges, recognized in the year ended
December 31, 2022.

The extent of the impact of these tragic events on our business remains
uncertain and will continue to depend on numerous evolving factors that we are
not able to accurately predict, including the duration and scope of the
conflict, regional instability and ongoing and additional financial and
economic sanctions, export controls and other legislation imposed by
governments. We will continue to monitor and assess the situation as
circumstances evolve and to identify actions to potentially mitigate any
unfavorable impacts on our future results.

Imposition of Taxes and Regulations on our Products

Certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured,
distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or
increased taxes or regulations on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our
products or their packaging, ingredients or substances contained in, or
attributes of, our products or their packaging, commodities used in the
production of our products or their packaging or the recyclability or
recoverability of our packaging. These taxes and regulations vary in scope and
form. For example, some taxes apply to all beverages, including non-caloric
beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener
(e.g., sugar). Further, some regulations apply to all products using certain
types of packaging (e.g., plastic), while others are designed to increase the
sustainability of packaging, encourage waste reduction and increased recycling
rates or facilitate the waste management process or restrict the sale of
products in certain packaging.

We sell a wide variety of beverages and convenient foods in more than 200
countries and territories and the profile of the products we sell, the amount
of revenue attributable to such products and the type of packaging used vary
by jurisdiction. Because of this, we cannot predict the scope or form
potential taxes, regulations or other limitations on our products or their
packaging may take, and therefore cannot predict the impact of such taxes,
regulations or limitations on our financial results. In addition, taxes,
regulations and limitations may impact us and our competitors differently. We
continue to monitor existing and proposed taxes and regulations in the
jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed and
sold and to consider actions we may take to potentially mitigate the
unfavorable impact, if any, of such taxes, regulations or limitations,
including advocating alternative measures with respect to the imposition, form
and scope of any such taxes, regulations or limitations.

Retail Landscape

Our industry continues to be affected by disruption of the retail landscape,
including the continued growth in sales through e-commerce websites and mobile
commerce applications, including through subscription services, the
integration of physical and digital operations among retailers and the
international expansion of hard discounters. We have seen and expect to
continue to see a further shift to e-commerce, online-to-

  

33

* * *

Table of Contents

offline and other online purchasing by consumers, including as a result of the
COVID-19 pandemic. We continue to monitor changes in the retail landscape and
seek to identify actions we may take to build our global e-commerce and
digital capabilities, such as expanding our direct-to-consumer business, and
distribute our products effectively through all existing and emerging channels
of trade and potentially mitigate any unfavorable impacts on our future
results.

See also "Item 1A. Risk Factors," "Executive Overview" above and "Market
Risks" below for more information about these risks and the actions we have
taken to address key challenges.

Risk Management Framework

The achievement of our strategic and operating objectives involves risks, many
of which evolve over time. To identify, assess, prioritize, address, manage,
monitor and communicate these risks across the Company's operations and foster
a corporate culture of integrity and risk awareness, we leverage an integrated
risk management framework. This framework includes the following:

•PepsiCo's Board has oversight responsibility for PepsiCo's integrated risk
management framework. One of the Board's primary responsibilities is
overseeing and interacting with senior management with respect to key aspects
of the Company's business, including risk assessment and risk mitigation of
the Company's top risks. Throughout the year, the Board and relevant
Committees of the Board receive updates from management with respect to
various enterprise risk management issues and dedicate a portion of their
meetings to reviewing and discussing specific risk topics in greater detail,
including risks related to cybersecurity, food safety, sustainability, human
capital management (including diversity, equity and inclusion) and supply
chain and commodity inflation. The Board receives and provides feedback on
regular updates from management regarding the Company's top risks, including
updates from members of management responsible for overseeing impacted areas
(for example, the Global Chief Information Officer and Chief Information
Security Officer), governance processes associated with managing these risks,
the status of projects to strengthen the Company's risk mitigation efforts and
recent incidents impacting the industry and threat landscape. Given that
cybersecurity risks can impact various areas of responsibility of the
Committees of the Board, the Board believes it is useful and effective for the
full Board to maintain direct oversight over cybersecurity matters. In
evaluating top risks, the Board and management consider short-, medium- and
long-term potential impacts on the Company's business, financial condition and
results of operations, including looking at the internal and external
environment when evaluating risks, risk amplifiers and emerging trends, and
considers the risk horizon as part of prioritizing the Company's risk
mitigation efforts. The Board receives updates through presentations, memos
and other written materials, teleconferences and other appropriate means of
communication, with numerous opportunities for discussion and feedback, and
continuously evaluates its approach in addressing top risks as circumstances
evolve. For example, as part of risk updates to the Board and relevant
Committees during 2022, the Board or its relevant Committee were provided
updates on the impact of disruptive events, such as the Russia-Ukraine
conflict, COVID-19 and supply chain disruption and commodity inflation. The
Board also receives periodic updates from external experts and advisers on
global macroeconomic trends and conditions that may impact the Company's
strategy and financial performance, including geopolitical conflicts, economic
instability, labor market trends, changing consumer behavior, retail
disruption and digitalization.

The Board has tasked designated Committees of the Board with oversight of
certain categories of risk management, and the Committees report to the Board
regularly on these matters.

◦The Audit Committee of the Board reviews and assesses the guidelines and
policies governing PepsiCo's risk management and oversight processes, and
assists the Board's

  

34

* * *

Table of Contents

oversight of financial, compliance and employee safety risks facing PepsiCo.
The Audit Committee also assists the Board's oversight of the Company's
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and the Chief Compliance &
Ethics Officer, who reports to the General Counsel, meets regularly with the
Audit Committee, including in executive session without management present;

◦The Compensation Committee of the Board reviews PepsiCo's employee
compensation policies and practices to assess whether such policies and
practices could lead to unnecessary risk-taking behavior;

◦The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee assists the Board in its
oversight of the Company's governance structure and other corporate governance
matters, including succession planning; and

◦The Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee of the Board
assists the Board in its oversight of PepsiCo's policies, programs and related
risks that concern key sustainability (including climate change), diversity,
equity and inclusion, and public policy matters.

•The PepsiCo Risk Committee (PRC) meets regularly to identify, assess,
prioritize and address top strategic, financial, operating, compliance,
safety, reputational and other risks. The PRC is also responsible for
reporting progress on our risk mitigation efforts to the Board. The PRC is
comprised of a cross-functional, geographically diverse, senior management
group, including PepsiCo's Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Sector Chief
Executive Officers and the heads of Corporate Affairs, Human Resources,
Research & Development, Information Technology, Sustainability, Strategy,
Transformation, International Beverages, Commercial, Global Operations,
Marketing and Financial Planning & Analysis;

•Division and key market risk committees, comprised of cross-functional senior
management teams, meet regularly to identify, assess, prioritize and address
division and country-specific business risks;

•PepsiCo's Risk Management Office, which manages the overall risk management
process, provides ongoing guidance, tools and analytical support to the PRC
and the division and key country risk committees, identifies and assesses
potential risks and facilitates ongoing communication between the parties, as
well as with PepsiCo's Board, the Audit Committee of the Board and other
Committees of the Board;

•PepsiCo's Internal Audit Department evaluates the ongoing effectiveness of
our key internal controls through periodic audit and review procedures; and

•PepsiCo's Compliance & Ethics and Law Departments lead and coordinate our
compliance policies and practices.

•PepsiCo's Disclosure Committee, comprised of the General Counsel, Controller
and heads of Internal Audit, Financial Planning & Analysis and Investor
Relations, evaluates information from PepsiCo's integrated risk management
framework as part of the Disclosure Committee's monitoring of the integrity
and effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures.
PepsiCo's risk oversight processes and disclosure controls and procedures are
designed to appropriately escalate key risks to the Board as well as to
analyze potential risks for disclosure.

  

35

* * *

Table of Contents

Market Risks

We are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in:

•commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy;

•foreign exchange rates and currency restrictions; and

•interest rates.

In the normal course of business, we manage commodity price, foreign exchange
and interest rate risks through a variety of strategies, including
productivity initiatives, global purchasing programs and hedging. Ongoing
productivity initiatives involve the identification and effective
implementation of meaningful cost-saving opportunities or efficiencies,
including the use of derivatives. Our global purchasing programs include
fixed-price contracts and purchase orders and pricing agreements. See "Item
1A. Risk Factors" for further discussion of our market risks.

The fair value of our derivatives fluctuates based on market rates and prices.
The sensitivity of our derivatives to these market fluctuations is discussed
below. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further
discussion of these derivatives and our hedging policies. The fair value of
our indefinite-lived intangible assets is impacted by changes in market
conditions, including interest rates and inflationary, deflationary and
recessionary conditions. See "Our Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates"
for a discussion of the exposure of our goodwill and other intangible assets
and pension and retiree medical plan assets and liabilities to risks related
to market fluctuations.

Inflationary, deflationary and recessionary conditions impacting these market
risks also impact the demand for and pricing of our products. See "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" for further discussion.

Commodity Prices

Our commodity derivatives had a total notional value of $1.8 billion as of
December 31, 2022 and $1.6 billion as of December 25, 2021. At the end of
2022, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments,
assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity price, would have
decreased our net unrealized gains in 2022 by $176 million, which would
generally be offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity
purchases.

Foreign Exchange

Our operations outside of the United States generated 43% of our consolidated
net revenue in 2022, with Mexico, Russia, Canada, China, the United Kingdom
and South Africa, collectively, comprising approximately 23% of our
consolidated net revenue in 2022. As a result, we are exposed to foreign
exchange risks in the international markets in which our products are made,
manufactured, distributed or sold. Additionally, we are exposed to foreign
exchange risk from net investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency
purchases, foreign currency assets and liabilities created in the normal
course of business. During 2022, unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net
revenue growth by 3 percentage points, primarily due to declines in the
Turkish lira, euro, Egyptian pound, British pound sterling and South African
rand, partially offset by an appreciation of the Russian ruble. Currency
declines against the U.S. dollar which are not offset could adversely impact
our future financial results.

In addition, volatile economic, political and social conditions and civil
unrest in certain markets in which our products are made, manufactured,
distributed or sold, including in Argentina, Brazil, China, Mexico, the Middle
East, Russia, Turkey and Ukraine, and currency controls or fluctuations in
certain of these international markets, continue to, and the threat or
imposition of new or increased tariffs or sanctions or other impositions in or
related to these international markets may, result in challenging operating
environments.

  

36

* * *

Table of Contents

Our foreign currency derivatives had a total notional value of $3.0 billion as
of December 31, 2022 and $2.8 billion as of December 25, 2021. At the end of
2022, we estimate that an unfavorable 10% change in the underlying exchange
rates would have decreased our net unrealized gains in 2022 by $298 million,
which would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the fair value of
the underlying exposure.

The total notional amount of our debt instruments designated as net investment
hedges was $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $2.1 billion as of
December 25, 2021.

Interest Rates

Our interest rate derivatives had a total notional value of $1.3 billion as of
December 31, 2022 and $2.1 billion as of December 25, 2021. Assuming year-end
2022 investment levels and variable rate debt, a 1-percentage-point increase
in interest rates would have decreased our net interest expense in 2022 by $48
million due to higher cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments
levels, as compared with our variable rate debt.

OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS

Results of Operations -- Consolidated Review

Volume

Physical or unit volume is one of the key metrics management uses internally
to make operating and strategic decisions, including the preparation of our
annual operating plan and the evaluation of our business performance. We
believe volume provides additional information to facilitate the comparison of
our historical operating performance and underlying trends, and provides
additional transparency on how we evaluate our business because it measures
demand for our products at the consumer level. Beginning in 2022, unit volume
growth adjusts for the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and other
structural changes. Further, our fiscal 2022 results include an additional
week (53rd reporting week). Unit volume growth excludes the impact of the 53rd
reporting week.

Beverage volume includes volume of concentrate sold to independent bottlers
and volume of finished products bearing company-owned or licensed trademarks
and allied brand products and joint venture trademarks sold by company-owned
bottling operations. Beverage volume also includes volume of finished products
bearing company-owned or licensed trademarks sold by our noncontrolled
affiliates. Concentrate volume sold to independent bottlers is reported in
concentrate shipments and equivalents (CSE), whereas finished beverage product
volume is reported in bottler case sales (BCS). Both CSE and BCS convert all
beverage volume to an 8-ounce-case metric. Typically, CSE and BCS are not
equal in any given period due to seasonality, timing of product launches,
product mix, bottler inventory practices and other factors. While our net
revenue is not entirely based on BCS volume due to the independent bottlers in
our supply chain, we believe that BCS is a better measure of the consumption
of our beverage products. PBNA, LatAm, Europe, AMESA and APAC, either
independently or in conjunction with third parties, make, market, distribute
and sell ready-to-drink tea products through a joint venture with Unilever
(under the Lipton brand name), and PBNA, either independently or in
conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-
to-drink coffee products through a joint venture with Starbucks.

Convenient food volume includes volume sold by us and our noncontrolled
affiliates of convenient food products bearing company-owned or licensed
trademarks. Internationally, we measure convenient food product volume in
kilograms, while in North America we measure convenient food product volume in
pounds. FLNA makes, markets, distributes and sells Sabra refrigerated dips and
spreads through a joint venture with Strauss Group.

  

37

* * *

Table of Contents

Consolidated Net Revenue and Operating Profit

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | Change  
Net revenue| $| 86,392 | | | $| 79,474 | | | 9 | %  
Operating profit| $| 11,512 | | | $| 11,162 | | | 3 | %  
Operating margin| 13.3 | %| | 14.0 | %| | (0.7)|  
  
See "Results of Operations - Division Review" for a tabular presentation and
discussion of key drivers of net revenue.

Operating profit grew 3% while operating margin declined 0.7 percentage
points. Operating profit growth was primarily driven by net revenue growth and
productivity savings, partially offset by certain operating cost increases and
a 42-percentage-point impact of higher commodity costs. The loss of net
revenue due to the Juice Transaction reduced operating profit growth by 3
percentage points and was partially offset by a 1-percentage-point
contribution from the 53rd reporting week.

Operating profit growth also reflects a 13-percentage-point unfavorable impact
of impairment charges related to certain indefinite-lived intangible assets
due to an increase in the weighted-average cost of capital as well as our most
current estimates of future financial performance (other impairment charges),
a 12-percentage-point unfavorable impact of the charges associated with the
Russia-Ukraine conflict and a 6-percentage-point unfavorable impact of
impairment on intangible assets, investment and property, plant and equipment
and other charges as a result of management's decision to reposition or
discontinue the sale/distribution of certain brands and to sell an investment
(brand portfolio impairment charges). These impacts were partially offset by a
29-percentage-point contribution from the gain associated with the Juice
Transaction.

The operating margin decline primarily reflects the unfavorable impacts of
other impairment charges, the charges associated with the Russia-Ukraine
conflict and the brand portfolio impairment charges, partially offset by the
gain associated with the Juice Transaction.

Juice Transaction

In the first quarter of 2022, we sold our Tropicana, Naked and other select
juice brands to PAI Partners, while retaining a 39% noncontrolling interest in
TBG, operating across North America and Europe. These juice businesses
delivered approximately $3 billion in net revenue in 2021. In the United
States, PepsiCo acts as the exclusive distributor for TBG's portfolio of
brands for small-format and foodservice customers with chilled DSD. See Note
13 to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Other Consolidated Results

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
| 2022| | 2021| | Change  
Other pension and retiree medical benefits income| $| 132 | | | $| 522 | | |
$| (390)|  
Net interest expense and other| $| (939)| | | $| (1,863)| | | $| 924 |  
Annual tax rate| 16.1 | %| | 21.8 | %| |  
Net income attributable to PepsiCo| $| 8,910 | | | $| 7,618 | | | 17 | %  
Net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share - diluted| $| 6.42 | | |
$| 5.49 | | | 17 | %  
  
Other pension and retiree medical benefits income decreased $390 million,
primarily due to higher settlement losses compared to the prior year.

Net interest expense and other decreased $924 million, reflecting the prior-
year charge of $842 million related to our cash tender offers, higher interest
rates on average cash balances and lower average debt balances, partially
offset by losses on the market value of investments used to economically hedge
a portion of our deferred compensation liability and higher interest rates on
debt.

  

38

* * *

Table of Contents

The reported tax rate decreased 5.7 percentage points, primarily reflecting
the impact of the Juice Transaction and adjustments to reserves for uncertain
tax positions as a result of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit.

Results of Operations -- Division Review

See "Our Business Risks," "Non-GAAP Measures" and "Items Affecting
Comparability" for a discussion of items to consider when evaluating our
results and related information regarding measures not in accordance with U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).

In the discussions of net revenue and operating profit below, "effective net
pricing" reflects the year-over-year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales
incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in
different package sizes and in different countries. Additionally,
"acquisitions and divestitures" reflect mergers and acquisitions activity, as
well as divestitures and other structural changes, including changes in
ownership or control in consolidated subsidiaries and nonconsolidated equity
investees.

Net Revenue and Organic Revenue Growth

Organic revenue growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. For further
information on this measure, see "Non-GAAP Measures."

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022  
| | | Impact of| | | | Impact of  
| Reported  
% Change, GAAP Measure| | Foreign exchange translation| | Acquisitions and
divestitures| | | |

53rd reporting week

| |

Organic

% Change, Non-GAAP Measure(a)

| |

Organic volume(b)

| | Effective net pricing  
FLNA| 19 | %| | -- | | | -- | | | | | (2)| | | 17 | %| | -- | | | 17 |  
QFNA| 15 | %| | 0.5 | | | -- | | | | | (2)| | | 13 | %| | (3)| | | 16 |  
PBNA| 4 | %| | -- | | | 9 | | | | | (2)| | | 11 | %| | 1 | | | 10 |  
LatAm| 21 | %| | -- | | | 1 | | | | | -- | | | 21 | %| | 5 | | | 16 |  
Europe| (2)| %| | 9 | | | 5 | | | | | -- | | | 12 | %| | (7)| | | 19 |  
AMESA| 6 | %| | 12 | | | 2 | | | | | -- | | | 20 | %| | 4 | | | 16 |  
APAC| 4 | %| | 5 | | | 2 | | | | | -- | | | 11 | %| | 4 | | | 6 |  
Total| 9 | %| | 3 | | | 4 | | | | | (1)| | | 14 | %| | -- | | | 14 |  
  
(a)Amounts may not sum due to rounding.

(b)Excludes the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and other structural
changes and the 53rd reporting week. In certain instances, the impact of
organic volume growth on net revenue growth differs from the unit volume
growth disclosed in the following divisional discussions due to the impacts of
product mix, nonconsolidated joint venture volume, and, for our franchise-
owned beverage businesses, temporary timing differences between BCS and CSE.
We report net revenue from our franchise-owned beverage businesses based on
CSE. The volume sold by our nonconsolidated joint ventures has no direct
impact on our net revenue.

  

39

* * *

Table of Contents

Operating Profit/(Loss), Operating Profit/(Loss) Adjusted for Items Affecting
Comparability and Operating Profit/(Loss) Performance Adjusted for Items
Affecting Comparability on a Constant Currency Basis

Operating profit/(loss) adjusted for items affecting comparability and
operating profit/(loss) performance adjusted for items affecting comparability
on a constant currency basis are both non-GAAP financial measures. For further
information on these measures, see "Non-GAAP Measures" and "Items Affecting
Comparability."

Operating Profit/(Loss) and Operating Profit/(Loss) Adjusted for Items
Affecting Comparability

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022  
| | |

Items Affecting Comparability(a)

| |  
|

Reported, GAAP Measure(b)

| | Mark-to-market net impact| | Restructuring and impairment charges| |
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges| | Gain associated with the Juice
Transaction| | | | | | | | Impairment and other charges| |

Core,

Non-GAAP Measure(b)  
  
FLNA| $| 6,135 | | | $| -- | | | $| 46 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | | | | | |
| $| 88 | | | $| 6,269 |  
QFNA| 604 | | | -- | | | 7 | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | | | | | -- | | | 611 |  
PBNA| 5,426 | | | -- | | | 68 | | | 51 | | | (3,029)| | | | | | | | | 160 | |
| 2,676 |  
LatAm| 1,627 | | | -- | | | 32 | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | | | | | 71 | | |
1,730 |  
Europe| (1,380)| | | -- | | | 109 | | | 14 | | | (292)| | | | | | | | | 2,932
| | | 1,383 |  
AMESA| 666 | | | -- | | | 12 | | | 3 | | | -- | | | | | | | | | 190 | | | 871
|  
APAC| 537 | | | -- | | | 16 | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | | | | | 177 | | | 730
|  
Corporate unallocated expenses| (2,103)| | | 62 | | | 90 | | | 6 | | | -- | |
| | | | | | | -- | | | (1,945)|  
Total| $| 11,512 | | | $| 62 | | | $| 380 | | | $| 74 | | | $| (3,321)| | | |
| | | | | $| 3,618 | | | $| 12,325 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2021  
| | |

Items Affecting Comparability(a)

| |  
|

Reported,

GAAP Measure(b)

| | Mark-to-market net impact| | Restructuring and impairment charges| |

Acquisition and divestiture-related charges(c)

| |

Core,

Non-GAAP Measure(b)  
  
FLNA

| $| 5,633 | | | $| -- | | | $| 28 | | | $| 2 | | | $| 5,663 |  
  
QFNA

| 578 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 578 |  
  
PBNA

| 2,442 | | | -- | | | 20 | | | 11 | | | 2,473 |  
  
LatAm

| 1,369 | | | -- | | | 37 | | | -- | | | 1,406 |  
  
Europe

| 1,292 | | | -- | | | 81 | | | 8 | | | 1,381 |  
  
AMESA

| 858 | | | -- | | | 15 | | | 10 | | | 883 |  
  
APAC

| 673 | | | -- | | | 7 | | | 4 | | | 684 |  
Corporate unallocated expenses| (1,683)| | | 19 | | | 49 | | | (39)| | |
(1,654)|  
Total| $| 11,162 | | | $| 19 | | | $| 237 | | | $| (4)| | | $| 11,414 |  
  
(a)See "Items Affecting Comparability."

(b)Includes charges taken as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. See Note 1 to
our consolidated financial statements for further information.

(c)In 2021, income amount primarily relates to gains associated with the
contingent consideration in connection with our acquisition of Rockstar Energy
Beverages (Rockstar). This impact is partially offset by divestiture-related
charges associated with the Juice Transaction. See Note 13 to our consolidated
financial statements for further information.

  

40

* * *

Table of Contents

Operating Profit/(Loss) Performance and Operating Profit/(Loss) Performance
Adjusted for Items Affecting Comparability on a Constant Currency Basis

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022  
| | |

Impact of Items Affecting Comparability(a)

| | | | Impact of| |  
| Reported % Change, GAAP Measure| | Mark-to-market net impact| |
Restructuring and impairment charges| | Acquisition and divestiture-related
charges| | | | Gain associated with the Juice Transaction| | | | | | |
Impairment and other charges| |

Core

% Change, Non-GAAP Measure(b)

| | Foreign exchange translation| |

Core Constant Currency

% Change, Non-GAAP Measure(b)  
  
FLNA| 9 | %| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | 1.5 | | | 11
| %| | -- | | | 11 | %  
QFNA| 4.5 | %| | -- | | | 1 | | | -- | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | -- | | | 6 |
%| | -- | | | 6 | %  
PBNA| 122 | %| | -- | | | 2 | | | 2 | | | | | (124)| | | | | | | | 7 | | | 8 |
%| | -- | | | 9 | %  
LatAm| 19 | %| | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | 4.5 | | |
23 | %| | -- | | | 23 | %  
Europe| (207)| %| | -- | | | 2 | | | 0.5 | | | | | (23)| | | | | | | | 228 | |
| -- | %| | 7 | | | 7 | %  
AMESA| (22)| %| | -- | | | -- | | | (1)| | | | | -- | | | | | | | | 23 | | |
(1)| %| | 9 | | | 7 | %  
APAC| (20)| %| | -- | | | 1 | | | (0.5)| | | | | -- | | | | | | | | 26 | | | 7
| %| | 4 | | | 11 | %  
Corporate unallocated expenses| 25 | %| | (2.5)| | | (2)| | | (2.5)| | | | |
-- | | | | | | | | -- | | | 18 | %| | -- | | | 18 | %  
Total| 3 | %| | -- | | | 1 | | | 1 | | | | | (29)| | | | | | | | 31 | | | 8 |
%| | 2 | | | 10 | %  
  
(a)See "Items Affecting Comparability."

(b)Amounts may not sum due to rounding.

FLNA

Net revenue grew 19%, primarily driven by effective net pricing and a
2-percentage-point contribution from the 53rd reporting week.

Unit volume decreased 1%, primarily reflecting a double-digit decline in our
Sabra joint venture products and a low-single-digit decline in variety packs,
partially offset by low-single-digit growth in trademark Doritos and double-
digit growth in trademark Popcorners.

Operating profit increased 9%, primarily reflecting the effective net pricing
and productivity savings. These impacts were partially offset by certain
operating cost increases, including strategic initiatives, a 17-percentage-
point impact of higher commodity costs, primarily cooking oil, potatoes and
seasoning, and higher advertising and marketing expenses. Additionally,
impairment charges associated with a baked fruit convenient food brand reduced
operating profit growth by 1.5 percentage points (other impairment charges).
The 53rd reporting week contributed 2 percentage points to operating profit
growth.

QFNA

Net revenue grew 15%, primarily driven by effective net pricing and a
2-percentage-point contribution from the 53rd reporting week, partially offset
by a decrease in organic volume.

Unit volume declined 3%, primarily reflecting mid-single-digit declines in
oatmeal and ready-to-eat cereals and a high-single-digit decline in pancake
syrups and mixes, partially offset by mid-single-digit growth in rice/pasta
sides and low-single-digit growth in bars.

Operating profit grew 4.5%, primarily reflecting the effective net pricing and
productivity savings. These impacts were partially offset by a 37-percentage-
point impact of higher commodity costs, primarily grains and packaging
materials, certain operating cost increases, including incremental
transportation costs, the decrease in organic volume and higher advertising
and marketing expenses. The 53rd reporting week contributed 2 percentage
points to operating profit growth.

  

41

* * *

Table of Contents

PBNA

Net revenue increased 4%, primarily driven by effective net pricing and an
increase in organic volume. The 53rd reporting week contributed 2 percentage
points to net revenue growth offset by a 9-percentage-point unfavorable impact
of lower net revenue due to the Juice Transaction.

Unit volume grew slightly, driven by a 1% increase in our NCB volume, offset
by a 1% decrease in CSD volume. The NCB volume increase primarily reflected a
mid-single-digit increase in Gatorade sports drinks, partially offset by a
double-digit decrease in our energy portfolio.

Operating profit increased 122%, primarily reflecting a 124-percentage-point
impact of the gain of $3.0 billion associated with the Juice Transaction,
partially offset by a 2-percentage-point impact of related transaction costs.
Operating profit growth was also driven by the net revenue growth and
productivity savings, partially offset by certain operating cost increases,
including incremental transportation and information technology costs, and a
42-percentage-point impact of higher commodity costs, primarily aluminum and
resin. A current-year gain associated with the sale of an asset and the 53rd
reporting week contributed 6 percentage points and 2 percentage points,
respectively, to operating profit growth. Additionally, operating profit
growth was reduced by a 15-percentage-point impact of the lower net revenue
due to the Juice Transaction.

As a result of our decision to terminate the agreement with Vital
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to distribute Bang energy drinks, we recorded impairment
and other related charges which reduced operating profit growth by 7
percentage points (brand portfolio impairment charges).

LatAm

Net revenue increased 21%, primarily reflecting effective net pricing and
organic volume growth.

Convenient foods unit volume grew 3.5%, primarily reflecting mid-single-digit
growth in Mexico, partially offset by a low-single-digit decline in Brazil.

Beverage unit volume grew 6%, primarily reflecting double-digit growth in
Argentina. Additionally, Brazil, Guatemala, Chile and Mexico each experienced
mid-single-digit growth.

Operating profit increased 19%, primarily reflecting the net revenue growth,
productivity savings and a 3-percentage-point favorable impact of lower
charges taken as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These impacts were
partially offset by certain operating cost increases, a 41-percentage-point
impact of higher commodity costs, primarily cooking oil, packaging materials
and grains, and higher advertising and marketing expenses. Additionally,
impairment and other charges associated with the sale of certain non-strategic
brands reduced operating profit growth by 4.5 percentage points (brand
portfolio impairment charges).

Europe

Net revenue decreased 2%, reflecting a 9-percentage-point impact of
unfavorable foreign exchange, an organic volume decline and a 4.5-percentage-
point unfavorable impact of the Juice Transaction, partially offset by
effective net pricing.

Convenient foods unit volume declined 4%, primarily reflecting double-digit
declines in Russia and Ukraine and a mid-single-digit decline in Poland,
partially offset by low-single-digit growth in the United Kingdom and France
and mid-single-digit growth in Turkey. Additionally, the Netherlands
experienced a low-single-digit decline.

Beverage unit volume declined 7%, primarily reflecting double-digit declines
in Russia, Ukraine and Germany, partially offset by low-single-digit growth in
France. Additionally, the United Kingdom experienced a low-single-digit
decline and Turkey experienced a mid-single-digit decline.

  

42

* * *

Table of Contents

Operating profit decreased 207%, primarily reflecting a 110-percentage-point
unfavorable impact of charges associated with the Russia-Ukraine conflict, a
98-percentage-point unfavorable impact of impairment charges related to the
SodaStream brand (other impairment charges) and a 20-percentage-point
unfavorable impact primarily related to the impairment of intangible assets
due to the discontinuation or repositioning of certain juice and dairy brands
in Russia (brand portfolio impairment charges), partially offset by a
23-percentage-point favorable impact of the gain associated with the Juice
Transaction. Operating profit performance was also negatively impacted by a
91-percentage-point impact of higher commodity costs, primarily packaging
materials, raw milk and potatoes, certain operating cost increases, the
organic volume decline, a 4-percentage-point impact of less favorable
settlements of promotional spending accruals compared to the prior year and a
4-percentage-point impact of payments to employees for a change in pension
benefits. These impacts were partially offset by the effective net pricing,
productivity savings and lower advertising and marketing expenses. Unfavorable
foreign exchange negatively impacted operating profit performance by 7
percentage points.

AMESA

Net revenue increased 6%, primarily reflecting effective net pricing and
organic volume growth, partially offset by a 3-percentage-point unfavorable
impact of an extra month of net revenue in 2021 as we aligned Pioneer Food
Group Ltd.'s (Pioneer Foods) reporting calendar with that of our AMESA
division. Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net revenue growth by 12
percentage points.

Convenient foods unit volume grew 2%, primarily reflecting double-digit growth
in the Middle East and Pakistan and high-single-digit growth in India,
partially offset by a low-single-digit decline in South Africa.

Beverage unit volume grew 14%, primarily reflecting double-digit growth in
India. Additionally, the Middle East experienced high-single-digit growth,
Nigeria experienced low-single-digit growth and Pakistan experienced double-
digit growth.

Operating profit decreased 22%, primarily reflecting a 19-percentage-point
impact of impairment and other charges associated with our decision to sell or
discontinue certain non-strategic brands and an investment (brand portfolio
impairment charges) and a 4-percentage-point impact of impairment charges
primarily related to certain juice brands from the Pioneer Foods acquisition
(other impairment charges). Operating profit performance was also negatively
impacted by a 74-percentage-point impact of higher commodity costs, primarily
packaging materials, grains and cooking oil, certain operating cost increases
and higher advertising and marketing expenses, partially offset by the net
revenue growth and productivity savings. Unfavorable foreign exchange
negatively impacted operating profit performance by 9 percentage points.

APAC

Net revenue increased 4%, primarily reflecting effective net pricing and
organic volume growth, partially offset by a 2-percentage-point unfavorable
impact of an extra month of net revenue in 2021 as we aligned Hangzhou Haomusi
Food Co., Ltd.'s (Be & Cheery) reporting calendar with that of our APAC
division. Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net revenue growth by 5
percentage points.

Convenient foods unit volume grew 3%, primarily reflecting low-single-digit
growth in China and Australia and mid-single-digit growth in Thailand,
partially offset by a low-single-digit decline in Taiwan.

Beverage unit volume grew 8%, primarily reflecting double-digit growth in
Vietnam. Additionally, China experienced mid-single-digit growth, Thailand
experienced low-single-digit growth and the Philippines experienced high-
single-digit growth.

Operating profit decreased 20%, primarily reflecting a 25-percentage-point
impact of impairment charges related to the Be & Cheery brand (other
impairment charges). Operating profit performance was also

  

43

* * *

Table of Contents

negatively impacted by a 25-percentage-point impact of higher commodity costs,
primarily cooking oil and potatoes, certain operating cost increases and
higher advertising and marketing expenses, partially offset by the net revenue
growth and productivity savings. Additionally, prior-year impairment charges
associated with an equity method investment positively contributed 3
percentage points to operating profit performance. Unfavorable foreign
exchange negatively impacted operating profit performance by 4 percentage
points.

Non-GAAP Measures

Certain financial measures contained in this Form 10-K adjust for the impact
of specified items and are not in accordance with GAAP. We use non-GAAP
financial measures internally to make operating and strategic decisions,
including the preparation of our annual operating plan, evaluation of our
overall business performance and as a factor in determining compensation for
certain employees. We believe presenting non-GAAP financial measures in this
Form 10-K provides additional information to facilitate comparison of our
historical operating results and trends in our underlying operating results
and provides additional transparency on how we evaluate our business. We also
believe presenting these measures in this Form 10-K allows investors to view
our performance using the same measures that we use in evaluating our
financial and business performance and trends.

We consider quantitative and qualitative factors in assessing whether to
adjust for the impact of items that may be significant or that could affect an
understanding of our ongoing financial and business performance or trends.
Examples of items for which we may make adjustments include: amounts related
to mark-to-market gains or losses (non-cash); charges related to restructuring
plans; charges associated with mergers, acquisitions, divestitures and other
structural changes; gains associated with divestitures; asset impairment
charges (non-cash); pension and retiree medical-related amounts (including all
settlement and curtailment gains and losses); charges or adjustments related
to the enactment of new laws, rules or regulations, such as tax law changes;
amounts related to the resolution of tax positions; tax benefits related to
reorganizations of our operations; debt redemptions, cash tender or exchange
offers; and remeasurements of net monetary assets. Prior to the fourth quarter
of 2021, certain immaterial pension and retiree medical-related settlement and
curtailment gains and losses were not considered items affecting
comparability. Pension and retiree medical-related service cost, interest
cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs
continue to be reflected in our core results. See below and "Items Affecting
Comparability" for a description of adjustments to our GAAP financial measures
in this Form 10-K.

Non-GAAP information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not
meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related
financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, our non-
GAAP financial measures may not be the same as or comparable to similar non-
GAAP measures presented by other companies.

The following non-GAAP financial measures contained in this Form 10-K are
discussed below:

Cost of sales, gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses,
gain associated with the Juice Transaction, impairment of intangible assets,
other pension and retiree medical benefits income, net interest expense and
other, provision for income taxes, net income attributable to noncontrolling
interests and net income attributable to PepsiCo, each adjusted for items
affecting comparability, operating profit and net income attributable to
PepsiCo per common share - diluted, each adjusted for items affecting
comparability, and the corresponding constant currency growth rates

These measures exclude the net impact of mark-to-market gains and losses on
centrally managed commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge
accounting, restructuring and impairment charges related to our 2019 Multi-
Year Productivity Plan (2019 Productivity Plan), charges associated with our
acquisitions and divestitures, the gain associated with the Juice Transaction,
impairment and other charges

  

44

* * *

Table of Contents

comprised of Russia-Ukraine conflict charges, brand portfolio impairment
charges and other impairment charges, the impact of settlement and curtailment
gains and losses related to pension and retiree medical plans, a charge
related to cash tender offers, tax benefit related to the IRS audit and tax
expense related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJ Act) (see "Items Affecting
Comparability" for a detailed description of each of these items). We also
evaluate performance on operating profit and net income attributable to
PepsiCo per common share - diluted, each adjusted for items affecting
comparability, on a constant currency basis, which measure our financial
results assuming constant foreign currency exchange rates used for translation
based on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. In order to
compute our constant currency results, we multiply or divide, as appropriate,
our current-year U.S. dollar results by the current-year average foreign
exchange rates and then multiply or divide, as appropriate, those amounts by
the prior-year average foreign exchange rates. We believe these measures
provide useful information in evaluating the results of our business because
they exclude items that we believe are not indicative of our ongoing
performance or that we believe impact comparability with the prior year.

Organic revenue growth

We define organic revenue growth as a measure that adjusts for the impacts of
foreign exchange translation, acquisitions, divestitures and other structural
changes, and every five or six years, the impact of the 53rd reporting week,
including in our 2022 financial results. Adjusting for acquisitions and
divestitures reflects mergers and acquisitions activity, including the impact
in 2021 of an extra month of net revenue for our acquisitions of Pioneer Foods
in our AMESA division and Be & Cheery in our APAC division as we aligned the
reporting calendars of these acquisitions with those of our divisions, as well
as divestitures and other structural changes, including changes in ownership
or control in consolidated subsidiaries and nonconsolidated equity investees.
We believe organic revenue growth provides useful information in evaluating
the results of our business because it excludes items that we believe are not
indicative of ongoing performance or that we believe impact comparability with
the prior year.

See "Net Revenue and Organic Revenue Growth" in "Results of Operations -
Division Review" for further information.

Free cash flow

We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less
capital spending, plus sales of property, plant and equipment. Since net
capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and
maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring
and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider
net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities. Free
cash flow is used by us primarily for acquisitions and financing activities,
including debt repayments, dividends and share repurchases. Free cash flow is
not a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures since we have
certain non-discretionary obligations such as debt service that are not
deducted from the measure.

See "Free Cash Flow" in "Our Liquidity and Capital Resources" for further
information.

Return on invested capital (ROIC) and net ROIC, excluding items affecting
comparability

We define ROIC as net income attributable to PepsiCo plus interest expense
after-tax divided by the sum of quarterly average debt obligations and
quarterly average common shareholders' equity. Although ROIC is a common
financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating ROIC. Accordingly,
the method used by management to calculate ROIC may differ from the methods
other companies use to calculate their ROIC.

We believe this metric serves as a measure of how well we use our capital to
generate returns. In addition, we use net ROIC, excluding items affecting
comparability, to compare our performance over various reporting periods on a
consistent basis because it removes from our operating results the impact of
items that we believe are not indicative of our ongoing performance and
reflects how management evaluates our

  

45

* * *

Table of Contents

operating results and trends. We define net ROIC, excluding items affecting
comparability, as ROIC, adjusted for quarterly average cash, cash equivalents
and short-term investments, after-tax interest income and items affecting
comparability. We believe the calculation of ROIC and net ROIC, excluding
items affecting comparability, provides useful information to investors and is
an additional relevant comparison of our performance to consider when
evaluating our capital allocation efficiency.

See "Return on Invested Capital" in "Our Liquidity and Capital Resources" for
further information.

Items Affecting Comparability

Our reported financial results in this Form 10-K are impacted by the following
items in each of the following years:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

2022  
  
| Cost of sales| | Gross profit| | Selling, general and administrative
expenses| | Gain associated with the Juice Transaction| | Impairment of
intangible assets| | | | Operating profit| | | | Other pension and retiree
medical benefits income| | | |

Provision for income taxes(a)

| | Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests| | Net income
attributable to PepsiCo  
Reported, GAAP Measure| $| 40,576 | | | $| 45,816 | | | $| 34,459 | | | $|
(3,321)| | | $| 3,166 | | | | | $| 11,512 | | | | | $| 132 | | | | | $| 1,727
| | | $| 68 | | | $| 8,910 |  
Items Affecting Comparability| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Mark-to-market net impact| (52)| | | 52 | | | (10)| | | -- | | | -- | | | | |
62 | | | | | -- | | | | | 14 | | | -- | | | 48 |  
Restructuring and impairment charges| (33)| | | 33 | | | (347)| | | -- | | |
-- | | | | | 380 | | | | | 31 | | | | | 77 | | | 1 | | | 333 |  
  
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges

| -- | | | -- | | | (74)| | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 74 | | | | | 6 | | | | |
14 | | | -- | | | 66 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 3,321 |
| | -- | | | | | (3,321)| | | | | -- | | | | | (433)| | | -- | | | (2,888)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Impairment and other charges| (201)| | | 201 | | | (251)| | | -- | | |
(3,166)| | | | | 3,618 | | | | | -- | | | | | 671 | | | -- | | | 2,947 |  
  
Pension and retiree medical-related impact

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | -- | | | | | 307 | | | | |
69 | | | -- | | | 238 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Tax benefit related to the IRS audit| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | | | -- | | | | | -- | | | | | 319 | | | -- | | | (319)|  
  
Tax expense related to the TCJ Act

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | -- | | | | | -- | | | | |
(86)| | | -- | | | 86 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Core, Non-GAAP Measure| $| 40,290 | | | $| 46,102 | | | $| 33,777 | | | $| --
| | | $| -- | | | | | $| 12,325 | | | | | $| 476 | | | | | $| 2,372 | | | $|
69 | | | $| 9,421 |  
  
  

46

* * *

Table of Contents

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

2021  
  
| Cost of sales| | Gross profit| | Selling, general and administrative
expenses| | Operating profit| | Other pension and retiree medical benefits
income| | | | Net interest expense and other| |

Provision for income taxes(a)

| | Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests| | Net income
attributable to PepsiCo  
Reported, GAAP Measure| $| 37,075 | | | $| 42,399 | | | $| 31,237 | | | $|
11,162 | | | $| 522 | | | | | $| (1,863)| | | $| 2,142 | | | $| 61 | | | $|
7,618 |  
Items Affecting Comparability| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Mark-to-market net impact| (39)| | | 39 | | | 20 | | | 19 | | | -- | | | | |
-- | | | 5 | | | -- | | | 14 |  
Restructuring and impairment charges| (29)| | | 29 | | | (208)| | | 237 | | |
10 | | | | | -- | | | 41 | | | 1 | | | 205 |  
  
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges

| (1)| | | 1 | | | 5 | | | (4)| | | -- | | | | | -- | | | 23 | | | -- | | |
(27)|  
  
Pension and retiree medical-related impact

| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 12 | | | | | -- | | | 1 | | | -- | | |
11 |  
Charge related to cash tender offers| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | | | 842 | | | 165 | | | -- | | | 677 |  
Tax expense related to the TCJ Act| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | |
| | | -- | | | (190)| | | -- | | | 190 |  
Core, Non-GAAP Measure| $| 37,006 | | | $| 42,468 | | | $| 31,054 | | | $|
11,414 | | | $| 544 | | | | | $| (1,021)| | | $| 2,187 | | | $| 62 | | | $|
8,688 |  
  
(a)Provision for income taxes is the expected tax charge/benefit on the
underlying item based on the tax laws and income tax rates applicable to the
underlying item in its corresponding tax jurisdiction.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | Change|  
Net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share - diluted, GAAP measure|
$| 6.42 | | | $| 5.49 | | | 17 | %|  
Mark-to-market net impact| 0.03 | | | 0.01 | | | |  
Restructuring and impairment charges| 0.24 | | | 0.15 | | | |  
  
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges

| 0.05 | | | (0.02)| | | |  
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction| (2.08)| | | -- | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
Impairment and other charges| 2.12 | | | -- | | | |  
  
Pension and retiree medical-related impact

| 0.17 | | | 0.01 | | | |  
Charge related to cash tender offers| -- | | | 0.49 | | | |  
Tax benefit related to the IRS audit| (0.23)| | | -- | | | |  
  
Tax expense related to the TCJ Act

| 0.06 | | | 0.14 | | | |  
| | | | | |  
| | | | | |  
Core net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share - diluted, non-GAAP
measure| $| 6.79 | |

(a)

| $| 6.26 | |

(a)

| 9 | %|  
Impact of foreign exchange translation| | | | | 2 | |  
Growth in core net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share - diluted,
on a constant currency basis, non-GAAP measure| | | | | 11 | %|

  
  
  
(a)Does not sum due to rounding.

Mark-to-Market Net Impact

We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. These
commodity derivatives include agricultural products, energy and metals.
Commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are
marked to market each period with the resulting gains and losses recorded in
corporate unallocated expenses as either cost of sales or selling, general and
administrative expenses, depending on the underlying commodity. These gains
and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions
recognize the cost of the underlying commodity in operating profit. Therefore,
the divisions realize the economic effects of the derivative without
experiencing any resulting mark-to-market volatility, which remains in
corporate unallocated expenses.

Restructuring and Impairment Charges

2019 Multi-Year Productivity Plan

The 2019 Productivity Plan, publicly announced on February 15, 2019, will
leverage new technology and business models to further simplify, harmonize and
automate processes; re-engineer our go-to-market and information systems,
including deploying the right automation for each market; and simplify our
organization and optimize our manufacturing and supply chain footprint. To
build on the successful

  

47

* * *

Table of Contents

implementation of the 2019 Productivity Plan, in the fourth quarter of 2022,
we expanded and extended the plan through the end of 2028 to take advantage of
additional opportunities within the initiatives described above. As a result,
we expect to incur pre-tax charges of approximately $3.65 billion, including
cash expenditures of approximately $2.9 billion. Plan to date through December
31, 2022, we have incurred pre-tax charges of $1.5 billion, including cash
expenditures of $1.0 billion. In our 2023 financial results, we expect to
incur pre-tax charges and cash expenditures of approximately $600 million
each. These charges will be funded primarily through cash from operations. We
expect to incur the majority of the remaining pre-tax charges and cash
expenditures in our 2023 through 2024 financial results, with the balance to
be incurred through 2028. Charges include severance and other employee costs,
asset impairments and other costs.

See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further information
related to our 2019 Productivity Plan. We regularly evaluate productivity
initiatives beyond the productivity plan and other initiatives discussed above
and in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.

Acquisition and Divestiture-Related Charges

Acquisition and divestiture-related charges primarily include fair value
adjustments to the acquired inventory included in the acquisition-date balance
sheets (recorded in cost of sales), merger and integration charges and costs
associated with divestitures (recorded in selling, general and administrative
expenses). Merger and integration charges include liabilities to support
socioeconomic programs in South Africa, gains associated with contingent
consideration, employee-related costs, contract termination costs, closing
costs and other integration costs. Divestiture-related charges reflect
transaction expenses, including consulting, advisory and other professional
fees.

See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Gain Associated with the Juice Transaction

We recognized a gain associated with the Juice Transaction in our PBNA and
Europe divisions.

See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Impairment and Other Charges

We recognized Russia-Ukraine conflict charges, brand portfolio impairment
charges and other impairment charges as described below.

Russia-Ukraine Conflict Charges

In connection with the deadly conflict in Ukraine, we recognized charges
related to indefinite-lived intangible assets and property, plant and
equipment impairment, allowance for expected credit losses, inventory write-
downs and other costs.

See Notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further
information.

Brand Portfolio Impairment Charges

We recognized intangible asset, investment and property, plant and equipment
impairments and other charges as a result of management's decision to
reposition or discontinue the sale/distribution of certain brands and to sell
an investment.

See Notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further
information.

  

48

* * *

Table of Contents

Other Impairment Charges

We recognized impairment charges related to certain of our indefinite-lived
intangible assets which reflect an increase in the weighted-average cost of
capital as well as our most current estimates of future financial performance.

See Notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further
information.

Pension and Retiree Medical-Related Impact

Pension and retiree medical-related impact primarily includes settlement
charges related to lump sum distributions exceeding the total of annual
service and interest costs, as well as curtailment gains.

See Notes 7 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further
information.

Charge Related to Cash Tender Offers

As a result of the cash tender offers for some of our long-term debt, we
recorded a charge primarily representing the tender price paid over the
carrying value of the tendered notes and loss on treasury rate locks used to
mitigate the interest rate risk on the cash tender offers.

See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Tax Benefit Related to the IRS Audit

We recognized a non-cash tax benefit resulting from our agreement with the IRS
to settle one of the issues assessed in the 2014 through 2016 tax audit. The
agreement covers tax years 2014 through 2019.

See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Tax Expense Related to the TCJ Act

Tax expense related to the TCJ Act reflects adjustments to the mandatory
transition tax liability under the TCJ Act.

See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Our Liquidity and Capital Resources

We believe that our cash generating capability and financial condition,
together with our revolving credit facilities, working capital lines and other
available methods of debt financing, such as commercial paper borrowings and
long-term debt financing, will be adequate to meet our operating, investing
and financing needs, including with respect to our net capital spending plans.
Our primary sources of liquidity include cash from operations, pre-tax cash
proceeds of approximately $3.5 billion from the Juice Transaction, proceeds
obtained from issuances of commercial paper and long-term debt, and cash and
cash equivalents. These sources of cash are available to fund cash outflows
that have both a short- and long-term component, including debt repayments and
related interest payments; payments for acquisitions; operating leases;
purchase, marketing, and other contractual commitments, including capital
expenditures and the transition tax liability under the TCJ Act. In addition,
these sources of cash fund other cash outflows including anticipated dividend
payments and share repurchases. We do not have guarantees or off-balance sheet
financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, that we believe
could have a material impact on our liquidity. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors,"
"Our Business Risks" and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for
further information.

  

49

* * *

Table of Contents

Our sources and uses of cash were not materially adversely impacted by the
Russia-Ukraine conflict and, to date, we have not identified any material
liquidity deficiencies as a result of the conflict. Based on the information
currently available to us, we do not expect the impact of the Russia-Ukraine
conflict to have a material impact on our future liquidity. We will continue
to monitor and assess the impact the Russia-Ukraine conflict may have on our
business and financial results. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors," "Our Business
Risks" and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for further
information related to the impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict on our
business and financial results.

As of December 31, 2022, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in
our consolidated subsidiaries subject to currency controls or currency
exchange restrictions were not material.

The TCJ Act imposed a one-time mandatory transition tax on undistributed
international earnings. As of December 31, 2022, our mandatory transition tax
liability was $2.6 billion, which must be paid through 2026 under the
provisions of the TCJ Act; we currently expect to pay approximately $309
million of this liability in 2023. Any additional guidance issued by the IRS
may impact our recorded amounts for this transition tax liability. See Note 5
to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the TCJ
Act.

As part of our evolving market practices, we work with our suppliers to
optimize our terms and conditions, which include the extension of payment
terms. Our current payment terms with a majority of our suppliers generally
range from 60 to 90 days, which we deem to be commercially reasonable. We will
continue to monitor economic conditions and market practice working with our
suppliers to adjust as necessary. We also maintain voluntary supply chain
finance agreements with several participating global financial institutions.
Under these agreements, our suppliers, at their sole discretion, may elect to
sell their accounts receivable with PepsiCo to these participating global
financial institutions. Supplier participation in these financing arrangements
is voluntary. Our suppliers negotiate their financing agreements directly with
the respective global financial institutions and we are not a party to these
agreements. These financing arrangements allow participating suppliers to
leverage PepsiCo's creditworthiness in establishing credit spreads and
associated costs, which generally provides our suppliers with more favorable
terms than they would be able to secure on their own. Neither PepsiCo nor any
of its subsidiaries provide any guarantees to any third party in connection
with these financing arrangements. We have no economic interest in our
suppliers' decision to participate in these agreements. Our obligations to our
suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled payment terms, are not
impacted. All outstanding amounts related to suppliers participating in such
financing arrangements are recorded within accounts payable and other current
liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. We were informed by the
participating financial institutions that as of both December 31, 2022 and
December 25, 2021, $1.5 billion of our accounts payable to suppliers who
participate in these financing arrangements are outstanding. These supply
chain finance arrangements did not have a material impact on our liquidity or
capital resources in the periods presented and we do not expect such
arrangements to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources
for the foreseeable future.

Furthermore, our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted
by seasonality. Working capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are
generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related
patterns and generally lowest in the first quarter. On a continuing basis, we
consider various transactions to increase shareholder value and enhance our
business results, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures,
dividends, share repurchases, productivity and other efficiency initiatives
and other structural changes. These transactions may result in future cash
proceeds or payments.

  

50

* * *

Table of Contents

The table below summarizes our cash activity:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021  
Net cash provided by operating activities| $| 10,811 | | | $| 11,616 |  
Net cash used for investing activities| $| (2,430)| | | $| (3,269)|  
Net cash used for financing activities| $| (8,523)| | | $| (10,780)|  
  
Operating Activities

In 2022, net cash provided by operating activities was $10.8 billion, compared
to $11.6 billion in the prior year. The decrease in operating cash flow
primarily reflects unfavorable working capital comparisons and higher net cash
tax payments, partially offset by favorable operating profit performance and
lower pre-tax pension and retiree medical plan contributions in the current
year.

Investing Activities

In 2022, net cash used for investing activities was $2.4 billion, primarily
reflecting net capital spending of $5.0 billion and our investment in Celsius
Holdings, Inc. (Celsius) convertible preferred stock and agreement to
distribute Celsius energy drinks of $0.8 billion, partially offset by proceeds
associated with the Juice Transaction of $3.5 billion.

In 2021, net cash used for investing activities was $3.3 billion, primarily
reflecting net capital spending of $4.5 billion, partially offset by
maturities of short-term investments with maturities greater than three months
of $1.1 billion.

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of
capital spending by division; see Notes 4 and 9 to our consolidated financial
statements for further discussion of our agreement with and investment in
Celsius; and see Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further
discussion of our acquisitions.

We regularly review our plans with respect to net capital spending, including
in light of the ongoing uncertainty caused by the Russia-Ukraine conflict on
our business, and believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our net
capital spending needs.

Financing Activities

In 2022, net cash used for financing activities was $8.5 billion, primarily
reflecting the return of operating cash flow to our shareholders through
dividend payments of $6.2 billion and share repurchases of $1.5 billion,
payments of long-term debt borrowings of $2.5 billion and debt
redemptions/cash tender offers of $1.7 billion, partially offset by proceeds
from issuances of long-term debt of $3.4 billion.

In 2021, net cash used for financing activities was $10.8 billion, primarily
reflecting the return of operating cash flow to our shareholders largely
through dividend payments of $5.8 billion, cash tender offers/debt redemption
of $4.8 billion, payments of long-term debt borrowings of $3.5 billion and
payments of acquisition-related contingent consideration of $0.8 billion,
partially offset by proceeds from issuances of long-term debt of $4.1 billion.

See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of
debt obligations.

We annually review our capital structure with our Board, including our
dividend policy and share repurchase activity. On February 10, 2022, we
announced a share repurchase program providing for the repurchase of up to
$10.0 billion of PepsiCo common stock which commenced on February 11, 2022 and
will expire on February 28, 2026. In addition, on February 9, 2023, we
announced a 10.0% increase in our annualized dividend to $5.06 per share from
$4.60 per share, effective with the dividend expected to be paid in June 2023.
We expect to return a total of approximately $7.7 billion to shareholders in
2023, comprising dividends of approximately $6.7 billion and share repurchases
of approximately $1.0 billion.

  

51

* * *

Table of Contents

Free Cash Flow

The table below reconciles net cash provided by operating activities, as
reflected on our cash flow statement, to our free cash flow. Free cash flow is
a non-GAAP financial measure. For further information on free cash flow, see
"Non-GAAP Measures."

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | Change  
Net cash provided by operating activities, GAAP measure| $| 10,811 | | | $|
11,616 | | | (7)| %  
Capital spending| (5,207)| | | (4,625)| | |  
Sales of property, plant and equipment| 251 | | | 166 | | |  
Free cash flow, non-GAAP measure| $| 5,855 | | | $| 7,157 | | | (18)| %  
  
We use free cash flow primarily for acquisitions and financing activities,
including debt repayments, dividends and share repurchases. We expect to
continue to return free cash flow to our shareholders primarily through
dividends and share repurchases while maintaining Tier 1 commercial paper
access, which we believe will facilitate appropriate financial flexibility and
ready access to global capital and credit markets at favorable interest rates.
However, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and "Our Business Risks" for certain
factors that may impact our credit ratings or our operating cash flows.

Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any
downgrade to below investment grade, whether or not as a result of our actions
or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our future borrowing
costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms
commercially acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, any downgrade of our
current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the
commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced
historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive
types of debt financing. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors," "Our Business Risks" and
Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Material Changes in Line Items in Our Consolidated Financial Statements

Material changes in line items in our consolidated statement of income are
discussed in "Results of Operations - Consolidated Review," "Results of
Operations - Division Review" and "Items Affecting Comparability."

Material changes in line items in our consolidated statement of cash flows are
discussed in "Our Liquidity and Capital Resources."

  

52

* * *

Table of Contents

Material changes in line items in our consolidated balance sheet are discussed
below:

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

2022 Change(a)  
  
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (b)

| $| (0.6)|  
  
Increase in accounts and notes receivable, net (c)

| $| 1.5 |  
  
Increase in inventories (d)

| $| 0.9 |  
  
Decrease in assets held for sale (e)

| $| (1.8)|  
  
Increase in property, plant and equipment, net (f)

| $| 1.9 |  
  
Decrease in other indefinite-lived intangible assets (g)

| $| (2.8)|  
  
Increase in investments in noncontrolled affiliates (h)

| $| 0.7 |  
  
Increase in other assets (i)

| $| 0.8 |  
  
Decrease in short-term debt obligations (j)

| $| (0.9)|  
  
Increase in accounts payable and other current liabilities (k)

| $| 2.2 |  
  
Decrease in liabilities held for sale (e)

| $| (0.8)|  
  
Decrease in deferred income taxes (l)

| $| (0.7)|  
  
Decrease in other liabilities (m)

| $| (0.8)|  
  
(a)In billions.

(b)See consolidated statement of cash flows.

(c)Primarily reflects strong revenue performance across much of our portfolio
in 2022. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for further
information.

(d)Primarily reflects higher commodity costs in 2022. See Note 14 to our
consolidated financial statements for further information.

(e)Reflects closing of the Juice Transaction. See Note 13 to our consolidated
financial statements for further information.

(f)Primarily reflects capital spending, partially offset by depreciation. See
Notes 1 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements for further
information.

(g)Primarily reflects impairments. See Notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated
financial statements for further information.

(h)Primarily reflects closing of the Juice Transaction. See Note 13 to our
consolidated financial statements for further information.

(i)Primarily reflects our investment in Celsius convertible preferred stock.
See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

(j)Primarily reflects debt payments and redemptions, partially offset by debt
maturing within one year. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements
for further information.

(k)Primarily reflects higher commodity costs and capital expenditures in 2022.
See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

(l)Primarily reflects certain impairments and the capitalization of research
and development expenses under the TCJ Act, partially offset by the deferred
tax impacts of our Juice Transaction. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial
statements for further information.

(m)Primarily reflects changes related to pension and retiree medical plans.
See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Material changes in equity line items are discussed in our consolidated
statement of equity and notes 7 and 11 to our consolidated financial
statements.

  

53

* * *

Table of Contents

Return on Invested Capital

ROIC is a non-GAAP financial measure. For further information on ROIC, see
"Non-GAAP Measures."

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | | | | | |  
Net income attributable to PepsiCo| $| 8,910 | |

  

| $| 7,618 | |

  

| | | | | |  
Interest expense| 1,119 | | | 1,988 | | | | | | | |  
Tax on interest expense| (248)| | | (441)| | | | | | | |  
| $| 9,781 | | | $| 9,165 | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
  
Average debt obligations (a)

| $| 39,595 | | | $| 42,341 | | | | | | | |  
  
Average common shareholders' equity (b)

| 17,785 | | | 14,924 | | | | | | | |  
Average invested capital| $| 57,380 | | | $| 57,265 | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | |  
ROIC, non-GAAP measure| 17.0 | | %| 16.0 | | %| | | | | |  
  
(a)Includes a quarterly average of short-term and long-term debt obligations.

(b)Includes a quarterly average of common stock, capital in excess of par
value, retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive loss and repurchased
common stock.

The table below reconciles ROIC as calculated above to net ROIC, excluding
items affecting comparability.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021|  
ROIC, non-GAAP measure| 17.0 | | %| 16.0 | | %  
Impact of:| | | |  
Average cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments| 2.1 | | | 2.2 | |  
Interest income | (0.3)| | | (0.2)| |  
Tax on interest income| 0.1 | | | -- | |  
Mark-to-market net impact| 0.1 | | | 0.1 | |  
Restructuring and impairment charges| 0.3 | | | 0.2 | |  
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges| 0.1 | | | (0.1)| |  
| | | |  
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction| (3.3)| | | -- | |  
| | | |  
Impairment and other charges| 3.7 | | | -- | |  
Pension and retiree medical-related impact| 0.3 | | | (0.1)| |  
Charge related to cash tender offers| (0.2)| | | -- | |  
Tax benefit related to the IRS audit| (0.4)| | | -- | |  
Tax expense related to the TCJ Act| 0.1 | | | 0.3 | |  
Core Net ROIC, non-GAAP measure| 19.6 | | %| 18.4 | | %  
  
OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

An appreciation of our critical accounting policies and estimates is necessary
to understand our financial results. These policies may require management to
make difficult and subjective judgments regarding uncertainties, including the
business and economic uncertainty resulting from the Russia-Ukraine conflict
and the high interest rate and inflationary cost environment, and as a result,
such estimates may significantly impact our financial results. The precision
of these estimates and the likelihood of future changes depend on a number of
underlying variables and a range of possible outcomes. We applied our critical
accounting policies and estimation methods consistently in all material
respects and for all periods presented. We have discussed our critical
accounting policies and estimates with our Audit Committee.

  

54

* * *

Table of Contents

Our critical accounting policies and estimates are:

•revenue recognition;

•goodwill and other intangible assets;

•income tax expense and accruals; and

•pension and retiree medical plans.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue when our performance obligation is satisfied. Our primary
performance obligation (the distribution and sales of beverage and convenient
food products) is satisfied upon the shipment or delivery of products to our
customers, which is also when control is transferred. The transfer of control
of products to our customers is typically based on written sales terms that do
not allow for a right of return. However, our policy for DSD, including
certain chilled products, is to remove and replace damaged and out-of-date
products from store shelves to ensure that consumers receive the product
quality and freshness they expect. Similarly, our policy for certain
warehouse-distributed products is to replace damaged and out-of-date products.
As a result, we record reserves, based on estimates, for anticipated damaged
and out-of-date products.

Our products are sold for cash or on credit terms. Our credit terms, which are
established in accordance with local and industry practices, typically require
payment within 30 days of delivery in the United States, and generally within
30 to 90 days internationally, and may allow discounts for early payment.

We estimate and reserve for our expected credit loss exposure based on our
experience with past due accounts and collectibility, write-off history, the
aging of accounts receivable, our analysis of customer data, and forward-
looking information (including the expected impact of a high interest rate and
inflationary cost environment), leveraging estimates of creditworthiness and
projections of default and recovery rates for certain of our customers.

Our policy is to provide customers with product when needed. In fact, our
commitment to freshness and product dating serves to regulate the quantity of
product shipped or delivered. In addition, DSD products are placed on the
shelf by our employees with customer shelf space and storerooms limiting the
quantity of product. For product delivered through other distribution
networks, we monitor customer inventory levels.

As discussed in "Our Customers" in "Item 1. Business," we offer sales
incentives and discounts through various programs to customers and consumers.
Total marketplace spending includes sales incentives, discounts, advertising
and other marketing activities. Sales incentives and discounts are primarily
accounted for as a reduction of revenue and include payments to customers for
performing activities on our behalf, such as payments for in-store displays,
payments to gain distribution of new products, payments for shelf space and
discounts to promote lower retail prices. Sales incentives and discounts also
include support provided to our independent bottlers through funding of
advertising and other marketing activities.

A number of our sales incentives, such as bottler funding to independent
bottlers and customer volume rebates, are based on annual targets, and
accruals are established during the year, as products are delivered, for the
expected payout, which may occur after year-end once reconciled and settled.
These accruals are based on contract terms and our historical experience with
similar programs and require management judgment with respect to estimating
customer and consumer participation and performance levels. Differences
between estimated expense and actual incentive costs are normally
insignificant and are recognized in earnings in the period such differences
are determined. In addition, certain advertising and marketing costs are also
based on annual targets and recognized during the year as incurred.

  

55

* * *

Table of Contents

See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on
our revenue recognition and related policies, including total marketplace
spending.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

We sell products under a number of brand names, many of which were developed
by us. Brand development costs are expensed as incurred. We also purchase
brands and other intangible assets in acquisitions. In a business combination,
the consideration is first assigned to identifiable assets and liabilities,
including brands and other intangible assets, based on estimated fair values,
with any excess recorded as goodwill. Determining fair value requires
significant estimates and assumptions, including those related to the Russia-
Ukraine conflict and a high interest rate and inflationary cost environment,
based on an evaluation of a number of factors, such as marketplace
participants, product life cycles, market share, consumer awareness, brand
history and future expansion expectations, amount and timing of future cash
flows and the discount rate applied to the cash flows.

We believe that a brand has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong
revenue and cash flow performance and we have the intent and ability to
support the brand with marketplace spending for the foreseeable future. If
these indefinite-lived brand criteria are not met, brands are amortized over
their expected useful lives, which generally range from 20 to 40 years.
Determining the expected life of a brand requires management judgment and is
based on an evaluation of a number of factors, including market share,
consumer awareness, brand history, future expansion expectations and
regulatory restrictions, as well as the macroeconomic environment of the
countries in which the brand is sold.

In connection with previous acquisitions, we reacquired certain franchise
rights which provided the exclusive and perpetual rights to manufacture and/or
distribute beverages for sale in specified territories. In determining the
useful life of these franchise rights, many factors were considered, including
the pre-existing perpetual bottling arrangements, the indefinite period
expected for these franchise rights to contribute to our future cash flows, as
well as the lack of any factors that would limit the useful life of these
franchise rights to us, including legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive,
economic or other factors. Therefore, certain of these franchise rights are
considered as indefinite-lived. Franchise rights that are not considered
indefinite-lived are amortized over the remaining contractual period of the
contract in which the right was granted.

Indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized and, as a
result, are assessed for impairment at least annually, using either a
qualitative or quantitative approach. We perform this annual assessment during
our third quarter, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. Where we use the qualitative
assessment, first we determine if, based on qualitative factors, it is more
likely than not that an impairment exists. Factors considered include
macroeconomic conditions (including those related to the Russia-Ukraine
conflict and a high interest rate and inflationary cost environment), industry
and competitive conditions, legal and regulatory environment, historical
financial performance and significant changes in the brand or reporting unit.
If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that
an impairment exists, then a quantitative assessment is performed.

In the quantitative assessment for indefinite-lived intangible assets and
goodwill, an assessment is performed to determine the fair value of the
indefinite-lived intangible asset and the reporting unit, respectively.
Estimated fair value is determined using discounted cash flows and requires an
analysis of several estimates including future cash flows or income consistent
with management's strategic business plans, annual sales growth rates,
perpetuity growth assumptions and the selection of assumptions underlying a
discount rate (weighted-average cost of capital) based on market data
available at the time. Significant management judgment is necessary to
estimate the impact of competitive operating, macroeconomic and other factors
(including those related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict and a high

  

56

* * *

Table of Contents

interest rate and inflationary cost environment) to estimate future levels of
sales, operating profit or cash flows. All assumptions used in our impairment
evaluations for indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill, such as
forecasted growth rates (including perpetuity growth assumptions) and
weighted-average cost of capital, are based on the best available market
information and are consistent with our internal forecasts and operating
plans. A deterioration in these assumptions could adversely impact our
results. These assumptions could be adversely impacted by certain of the risks
described in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and "Our Business Risks."

In 2022, we recorded $1.3 billion ($1.1 billion after-tax or $0.78 per share)
of indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges related to the
SodaStream brand in Europe. As a result, its carrying value as of December 31,
2022 is equal to its fair value and the brand is at a heightened risk of
future impairment if certain assumptions and estimates were to change. For
example, a mutually exclusive 100-basis-point increase in the discount rate
and a 100-basis-point decrease in the perpetuity growth rate used to estimate
the fair value of the SodaStream brand would result in an additional estimated
impairment charge of approximately $0.2 billion and $0.1 billion,
respectively. We will continue to monitor the performance of the SodaStream
brand and goodwill, as well as all of our indefinite-lived intangible assets.

Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a
significant change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. If an
evaluation of the undiscounted future cash flows indicates impairment, the
asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on its
discounted future cash flows.

See Notes 2 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further
information.

Income Tax Expense and Accruals

Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax
structure and transactions, including transfer pricing arrangements, available
to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment
is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our tax
positions. We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return
positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are subject
to challenge and that we likely will not succeed. We adjust these reserves, as
well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances,
such as the progress of a tax audit, new tax laws, relevant court cases or tax
authority settlements. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for further discussion.

An estimated annual effective tax rate is applied to our quarterly operating
results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in our
quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately
calculated and recorded at the same time as that item. We consider the tax
adjustments from the resolution of prior-year tax matters to be among such
items.

Tax law requires items to be included in our tax returns at different times
than the items are reflected in our consolidated financial statements. As a
result, our annual tax rate reflected in our consolidated financial statements
is different than that reported in our tax returns (our cash tax rate). Some
of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible
in our tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as
depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets
and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be
used as a tax deduction or credit in our tax returns in future years for which
we have already recorded the tax benefit on our consolidated financial
statements. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets if,
based on the available evidence, it is not more likely than not that some
portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. Deferred tax
liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our consolidated
financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which
we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but have not yet
recognized as expense in our consolidated financial statements.

  

57

* * *

Table of Contents

In 2022, our annual tax rate was 16.1% compared to 21.8% in 2021. See "Other
Consolidated Results" for further information.

See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Pension and Retiree Medical Plans

Our pension plans cover certain employees in the United States and certain
international employees. Benefits are determined based on either years of
service or a combination of years of service and earnings. Certain U.S. and
Canada retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits
(retiree medical) if they meet age and service requirements. Generally, our
share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar amounts, which
vary based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder of
the cost. In addition, we have been phasing out certain subsidies of retiree
medical benefits.

See "Items Affecting Comparability" and Note 7 to our consolidated financial
statements for information about changes and settlements within our pension
plans.

Our Assumptions

The determination of pension and retiree medical expenses and obligations
requires the use of assumptions to estimate the amount of benefits that
employees earn while working, as well as the present value of those benefits.
Annual pension and retiree medical expense amounts are principally based on
four components: (1) the value of benefits earned by employees for working
during the year (service cost), (2) the increase in the projected benefit
obligation due to the passage of time (interest cost), and (3) other gains and
losses as discussed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements,
reduced by (4) the expected return on assets for our funded plans.

Significant assumptions used to measure our annual pension and retiree medical
expenses include:

•certain employee-related demographic factors, such as turnover, retirement
age and mortality;

•the expected rate of return on assets in our funded plans;

•the spot rates along the yield curve used to determine service and interest
costs and the present value of liabilities;

•for pension expense, the rate of salary increases for plans where benefits
are based on earnings; and

•for retiree medical expense, health care cost trend rates.

Certain assumptions reflect our historical experience and management's best
judgment regarding future expectations. All actuarial assumptions are reviewed
annually, except in the case of an interim remeasurement due to a significant
event such as a curtailment or settlement. Due to the significant management
judgment involved, these assumptions could have a material impact on the
measurement of our pension and retiree medical expenses and obligations.

At each measurement date, the discount rates are based on interest rates for
high-quality, long-term corporate debt securities with maturities comparable
to those of our liabilities. Our U.S. obligation and pension and retiree
medical expense is based on the discount rates determined using the Mercer
Above Mean Curve. This curve includes bonds that closely match the timing and
amount of our expected benefit payments and reflects the portfolio of
investments we would consider to settle our liabilities.

See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for information about the
expected rate of return on plan assets and our plans' investment strategy.
Although we review our expected long-term rates of return on an annual basis,
our asset returns in a given year do not significantly influence our
evaluation of long-term rates of return.

  

58

* * *

Table of Contents

The health care trend rate used to determine our retiree medical plans'
obligation and expense is reviewed annually. Our review is based on our claims
experience, information provided by our health plans and actuaries, and our
knowledge of the health care industry. Our review of the trend rate considers
factors such as demographics, plan design, new medical technologies and
changes in medical carriers.

Weighted-average assumptions for pension and retiree medical expense are as
follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022| | 2021  
Pension| | | | |  
  
Service cost discount rate (a)

| 5.5 | %| | 3.2 | %| | 2.6 | %  
  
Interest cost discount rate (a)

| 5.4 | %| | 2.9 | %| | 1.9 | %  
  
Expected rate of return on plan assets (a)

| 7.0 | %| | 6.3 | %| | 6.2 | %  
Expected rate of salary increases| 3.3 | %| | 3.1 | %| | 3.1 | %  
Retiree medical| | | | |  
Service cost discount rate | 5.4 | %| | 2.8 | %| | 2.3 | %  
Interest cost discount rate | 5.3 | %| | 2.1 | %| | 1.6 | %  
Expected rate of return on plan assets | 7.1 | %| | 5.7 | %| | 5.4 | %  
Current health care cost trend rate| 5.5 | %| | 5.8 | %| | 5.5 | %  
  
(a)2022 rates reflect remeasurement of a U.S. qualified defined benefit
pension plan in the second quarter of 2022.

In 2022, lump sum distributions exceeded the total of annual service and
interest cost and triggered pre-tax settlement charges for certain U.S defined
pension plans. In addition, we expect the recognition of fixed income losses
on plan assets, partially offset by higher discount rates, to increase our
pension and retiree medical expense in 2023.

Sensitivity of Assumptions

A decrease in each of the collective discount rates or in the expected rate of
return assumptions would increase expense for our benefit plans. A 25-basis-
point decrease in each of the above discount rates and expected rate of return
assumptions would individually increase 2023 pre-tax pension and retiree
medical expense as follows:

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Assumption| | Amount  
  
Discount rates used in the calculation of expense

| | $| 13 |  
Expected rate of return| | $| 38 |  
  
Funding

We make contributions to pension trusts that provide plan benefits for certain
pension plans. These contributions are made in accordance with applicable tax
regulations that provide for current tax deductions for our contributions and
taxation to the employee only upon receipt of plan benefits. Generally, we do
not fund our pension plans when our contributions would not be currently tax
deductible. As our retiree medical plans are not subject to regulatory funding
requirements, we generally fund these plans on a pay-as-you-go basis, although
we periodically review available options to make additional contributions
toward these benefits.

We made a discretionary contribution of $125 million to a U.S. qualified
defined benefit plan in January 2023 and expect to make an additional $125
million in the third quarter of 2023.

Our pension and retiree medical plan contributions are subject to change as a
result of many factors, such as changes in interest rates, deviations between
actual and expected asset returns and changes in tax or other benefit laws. We
regularly evaluate different opportunities to reduce risk and volatility
associated with our pension and retiree medical plans. See Note 7 to our
consolidated financial statements for our past and expected contributions and
estimated future benefit payments.

  

59

* * *

Table of Contents

Consolidated Statement of Income

PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020

(in millions except per share amounts)

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Net Revenue| $| 86,392 | | | $| 79,474 | | | $| 70,372 |  
Cost of sales| 40,576 | | | 37,075 | | | 31,797 |  
Gross profit| 45,816 | | | 42,399 | | | 38,575 |  
Selling, general and administrative expenses| 34,459 | | | 31,237 | | | 28,453
|  
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction (see Note 13)| (3,321)| | | -- | |
| -- |  
Impairment of intangible assets (see Notes 1 and 4)| 3,166 | | | -- | | | 42 |  
| | | | |  
Operating Profit| 11,512 | | | 11,162 | | | 10,080 |  
Other pension and retiree medical benefits income| 132 | | | 522 | | | 117 |  
Net interest expense and other| (939)| | | (1,863)| | | (1,128)|  
Income before income taxes| 10,705 | | | 9,821 | | | 9,069 |  
Provision for income taxes| 1,727 | | | 2,142 | | | 1,894 |  
Net income| 8,978 | | | 7,679 | | | 7,175 |  
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests| 68 | | | 61 | | |
55 |  
Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo| $| 8,910 | | | $| 7,618 | | | $| 7,120 |  
Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share| | | | |  
Basic| $| 6.45 | | | $| 5.51 | | | $| 5.14 |  
Diluted| $| 6.42 | | | $| 5.49 | | | $| 5.12 |  
Weighted-average common shares outstanding| | | | |  
Basic| 1,380 | | | 1,382 | | | 1,385 |  
Diluted| 1,387 | | | 1,389 | | | 1,392 |  
  
| |  
---|---|---  
  
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

  

60

* * *

Table of Contents

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020

(in millions)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Net income| $| 8,978 | | | $| 7,679 | | | $| 7,175 |  
Other comprehensive (loss)/income, net of taxes:| | | | |  
Net currency translation adjustment| (643)| | | (369)| | | (650)|  
Net change on cash flow hedges| (158)| | | 155 | | | 7 |  
Net pension and retiree medical adjustments| 389 | | | 770 | | | (532)|  
Other| 4 | | | 22 | | | (1)|  
| (408)| | | 578 | | | (1,176)|  
Comprehensive income| 8,570 | | | 8,257 | | | 5,999 |  
Less: Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests| 64 | | |
61 | | | 55 |  
Comprehensive Income Attributable to PepsiCo| $| 8,506 | | | $| 8,196 | | | $|
5,944 |  
  
| |  
---|---|---  
  
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

  

61

* * *

Table of Contents

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020

(in millions)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Operating Activities| | | | |  
Net income| $| 8,978 | | | $| 7,679 | | | $| 7,175 |  
Depreciation and amortization| 2,763 | | | 2,710 | | | 2,548 |  
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction| (3,321)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Impairment and other charges| 3,618 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Operating lease right-of-use asset amortization| 517 | | | 505 | | | 478 |  
Share-based compensation expense| 343 | | | 301 | | | 264 |  
Restructuring and impairment charges| 411 | | | 247 | | | 289 |  
Cash payments for restructuring charges| (224)| | | (256)| | | (255)|  
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges| 80 | | | (4)| | | 255 |  
Cash payments for acquisition and divestiture-related charges| (46)| | |
(176)| | | (131)|  
Pension and retiree medical plan expenses| 419 | | | 123 | | | 408 |  
Pension and retiree medical plan contributions| (384)| | | (785)| | | (562)|  
Deferred income taxes and other tax charges and credits| (873)| | | 298 | | |
361 |  
Tax expense related to the TCJ Act| 86 | | | 190 | | | -- |  
Tax payments related to the TCJ Act| (309)| | | (309)| | | (78)|  
Change in assets and liabilities:| | | | |  
Accounts and notes receivable| (1,763)| | | (651)| | | (420)|  
Inventories| (1,142)| | | (582)| | | (516)|  
Prepaid expenses and other current assets| 118 | | | 159 | | | 26 |  
Accounts payable and other current liabilities| 1,842 | | | 1,762 | | | 766 |  
Income taxes payable| 57 | | | 30 | | | (159)|  
Other, net| (359)| | | 375 | | | 164 |  
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities| 10,811 | | | 11,616 | | | 10,613 |  
| | | | |  
Investing Activities| | | | |  
Capital spending| (5,207)| | | (4,625)| | | (4,240)|  
Sales of property, plant and equipment| 251 | | | 166 | | | 55 |  
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, investments in noncontrolled affiliates
and purchases of intangible and other assets| (873)| | | (61)| | | (6,372)|  
Proceeds associated with the Juice Transaction| 3,456 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Other divestitures, sales of investments in noncontrolled affiliates and other
assets| 49 | | | 169 | | | 6 |  
Short-term investments, by original maturity:| | | | |  
More than three months - purchases| (291)| | | -- | | | (1,135)|  
More than three months - maturities| 150 | | | 1,135 | | | -- |  
| | | | |  
Three months or less, net| 24 | | | (58)| | | 27 |  
Other investing, net| 11 | | | 5 | | | 40 |  
Net Cash Used for Investing Activities| (2,430)| | | (3,269)| | | (11,619)|  
  
| |  
---|---|---  
  
(Continued on following page)

  

  

62

* * *

Table of Contents

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (continued)

PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020

(in millions)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Financing Activities| | | | |  
Proceeds from issuances of long-term debt| $| 3,377 | | | $| 4,122 | | | $|
13,809 |  
Payments of long-term debt| (2,458)| | | (3,455)| | | (1,830)|  
Debt redemptions/cash tender offers| (1,716)| | | (4,844)| | | (1,100)|  
Short-term borrowings, by original maturity:| | | | |  
More than three months - proceeds| 1,969 | | | 8 | | | 4,077 |  
More than three months - payments| (1,951)| | | (397)| | | (3,554)|  
Three months or less, net| (31)| | | 434 | | | (109)|  
  
Payments of acquisition-related contingent consideration

| -- | | | (773)| | | -- |  
Cash dividends paid| (6,172)| | | (5,815)| | | (5,509)|  
Share repurchases - common| (1,500)| | | (106)| | | (2,000)|  
Proceeds from exercises of stock options| 138 | | | 185 | | | 179 |  
Withholding tax payments on restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance
stock units (PSUs) converted| (107)| | | (92)| | | (96)|  
Other financing| (72)| | | (47)| | | (48)|  
Net Cash (Used for)/Provided by Financing Activities| (8,523)| | | (10,780)| |
| 3,819 |  
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted
cash| (465)| | | (114)| | | (129)|  
Net (Decrease)/Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash|
(607)| | | (2,547)| | | 2,684 |  
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash, Beginning of Year| 5,707 | | |
8,254 | | | 5,570 |  
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash, End of Year| $| 5,100 | | | $|
5,707 | | | $| 8,254 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
  
| |  
---|---|---  
  
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

  

63

* * *

Table of Contents

Consolidated Balance Sheet

PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries

December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021

(in millions except per share amounts)

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021  
ASSETS| | |  
Current Assets| | |  
  
Cash and cash equivalents

| $| 4,954 | | | $| 5,596 |  
  
Short-term investments

| 394 | | | 392 |  
| | |  
  
Accounts and notes receivable, net

| 10,163 | | | 8,680 |  
Inventories| 5,222 | | | 4,347 |  
Prepaid expenses and other current assets| 806 | | | 980 |  
Assets held for sale| -- | | | 1,788 |  
  
Total Current Assets

| 21,539 | | | 21,783 |  
Property, Plant and Equipment, net| 24,291 | | | 22,407 |  
Amortizable Intangible Assets, net| 1,277 | | | 1,538 |  
Goodwill| 18,202 | | | 18,381 |  
Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets| 14,309 | | | 17,127 |  
Investments in Noncontrolled Affiliates| 3,073 | | | 2,350 |  
Deferred Income Taxes| 4,204 | | | 4,310 |  
Other Assets| 5,292 | | | 4,481 |  
  
Total Assets

| $| 92,187 | | | $| 92,377 |  
| | |  
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY| | |  
Current Liabilities| | |  
  
Short-term debt obligations

| $| 3,414 | | | $| 4,308 |  
  
Accounts payable and other current liabilities

| 23,371 | | | 21,159 |  
Liabilities held for sale| -- | | | 753 |  
  
Total Current Liabilities

| 26,785 | | | 26,220 |  
Long-Term Debt Obligations| 35,657 | | | 36,026 |  
Deferred Income Taxes| 4,133 | | | 4,826 |  
Other Liabilities| 8,339 | | | 9,154 |  
  
Total Liabilities

| 74,914 | | | 76,226 |  
Commitments and contingencies| | |  
| | |  
| | |  
PepsiCo Common Shareholders' Equity| | |  
  
Common stock, par value 12/3¢ per share (authorized 3,600 shares; issued, net
of repurchased common stock at par value: 1,377 and 1,383 shares,
respectively)

| 23 | | | 23 |  
  
Capital in excess of par value

| 4,134 | | | 4,001 |  
  
Retained earnings

| 67,800 | | | 65,165 |  
  
Accumulated other comprehensive loss

| (15,302)| | | (14,898)|  
  
Repurchased common stock, in excess of par value (490 and 484 shares,
respectively)

| (39,506)| | | (38,248)|  
  
Total PepsiCo Common Shareholders' Equity

| 17,149 | | | 16,043 |  
Noncontrolling interests| 124 | | | 108 |  
  
Total Equity

| 17,273 | | | 16,151 |  
Total Liabilities and Equity| $| 92,187 | | | $| 92,377 |  
  
| |  
---|---|---  
  
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

  

64

* * *

Table of Contents

Consolidated Statement of Equity

PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020

(in millions except per share amounts)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| Shares| | Amount| | Shares| | Amount| | Shares| | Amount  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Common Stock| | | | | | | | | | |  
Balance, beginning of year| 1,383 | | | $| 23 | | | 1,380 | | | $| 23 | | |
1,391 | | | $| 23 |  
Change in repurchased common stock| (6)| | | -- | | | 3 | | | -- | | | (11)| |
| -- |  
Balance, end of year| 1,377 | | | 23 | | | 1,383 | | | 23 | | | 1,380 | | | 23
|  
Capital in Excess of Par Value| | | | | | | | | | |  
Balance, beginning of year| | | 4,001 | | | | | 3,910 | | | | | 3,886 |  
Share-based compensation expense| | | 346 | | | | | 302 | | | | | 263 |  
Stock option exercises, RSUs and PSUs converted| | | (102)| | | | | (118)| | |
| | (143)|  
Withholding tax on RSUs and PSUs converted| | | (107)| | | | | (92)| | | | |
(96)|  
Other| | | (4)| | | | | (1)| | | | | -- |  
Balance, end of year| | | 4,134 | | | | | 4,001 | | | | | 3,910 |  
Retained Earnings| | | | | | | | | | |  
Balance, beginning of year| | | 65,165 | | | | | 63,443 | | | | | 61,946 |  
Cumulative effect of accounting changes| | | -- | | | | | -- | | | | | (34)|  
Net income attributable to PepsiCo| | | 8,910 | | | | | 7,618 | | | | | 7,120
|  
  
Cash dividends declared - common (a)

| | | (6,275)| | | | | (5,896)| | | | | (5,589)|  
Balance, end of year| | | 67,800 | | | | | 65,165 | | | | | 63,443 |  
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss| | | | | | | | | | |  
Balance, beginning of year| | | (14,898)| | | | | (15,476)| | | | | (14,300)|  
Other comprehensive (loss)/income attributable to PepsiCo| | | (404)| | | | |
578 | | | | | (1,176)|  
Balance, end of year| | | (15,302)| | | | | (14,898)| | | | | (15,476)|  
Repurchased Common Stock| | | | | | | | | | |  
Balance, beginning of year| (484)| | | (38,248)| | | (487)| | | (38,446)| | |
(476)| | | (36,769)|  
Share repurchases| (9)| | | (1,500)| | | (1)| | | (106)| | | (15)| | |
(2,000)|  
Stock option exercises, RSUs and PSUs converted| 3 | | | 240 | | | 4 | | | 303
| | | 4 | | | 322 |  
Other| -- | | | 2 | | | -- | | | 1 | | | -- | | | 1 |  
Balance, end of year| (490)| | | (39,506)| | | (484)| | | (38,248)| | | (487)|
| | (38,446)|  
Total PepsiCo Common Shareholders' Equity| | | 17,149 | | | | | 16,043 | | | |
| 13,454 |  
Noncontrolling Interests| | | | | | | | | | |  
Balance, beginning of year| | | 108 | | | | | 98 | | | | | 82 |  
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests| | | 68 | | | | | 61 | | |
| | 55 |  
Distributions to noncontrolling interests| | | (69)| | | | | (49)| | | | |
(44)|  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Acquisitions| | | 21 | | | | | -- | | | | | 5 |  
Other, net | | | (4)| | | | | (2)| | | | | -- |  
Balance, end of year| | | 124 | | | | | 108 | | | | | 98 |  
Total Equity| | | $| 17,273 | | | | | $| 16,151 | | | | | $| 13,552 |  
  
| |  
---|---|---  
  
(a) Cash dividends declared per common share were $4.5250, $4.2475 and $4.0225
for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

  

65

* * *

Table of Contents

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 1 -- Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions

Basis of Presentation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with GAAP and include the consolidated accounts of PepsiCo, Inc.
and the affiliates that we control. In addition, we include our share of the
results of certain other affiliates using the equity method based on our
economic ownership interest, our ability to exercise significant influence
over the operating or financial decisions of these affiliates or our ability
to direct their economic resources. We do not control these other affiliates,
as our ownership in these other affiliates is generally 50% or less.
Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. As a result of exchange
restrictions and other operating restrictions, we do not have control over our
Venezuelan subsidiaries. As such, our Venezuelan subsidiaries are not included
within our consolidated financial results for any period presented.

Raw materials, direct labor and plant overhead, as well as purchasing and
receiving costs, costs directly related to production planning, inspection
costs and raw materials handling facilities, are included in cost of sales.
The costs of moving, storing and delivering finished product, including
merchandising activities, are included in selling, general and administrative
expenses.

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues, expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Estimates are used in determining, among other items, sales incentives
accruals, tax reserves, share-based compensation, pension and retiree medical
accruals, amounts and useful lives for intangible assets and future cash flows
associated with impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets,
goodwill and other long-lived assets. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing
basis using our historical experience, as well as other factors we believe
appropriate under the circumstances, such as current economic conditions, and
adjust or revise our estimates as circumstances change. Additionally, the
business and economic uncertainty resulting from the Russia-Ukraine conflict
and the high interest rate and inflationary cost environment has made such
estimates and assumptions more difficult to calculate. As future events and
their effect cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ
significantly from those estimates.

Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in a
53rd reporting week every five or six years, including in our 2022 financial
results. While our North America financial results are reported on a weekly
calendar basis, substantially all of our international operations reported on
a monthly calendar basis prior to the fourth quarter of 2021. Beginning in the
fourth quarter of 2021, all of our international operations reported on a
monthly calendar basis. This change did not have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements. The following chart details our quarterly
reporting schedule for 2022, reflecting the additional week in the fourth
quarter:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Quarter| | United States and Canada| | International  
First Quarter| | 12 weeks| | January, February  
Second Quarter| | 12 weeks| | March, April and May  
Third Quarter| | 12 weeks| | June, July and August  
Fourth Quarter| | 17 weeks| | September, October, November and December  
  
Unless otherwise noted, tabular dollars are in millions, except per share
amounts. All per share amounts reflect common per share amounts, assume
dilution unless otherwise noted, and are based on unrounded amounts. Certain
reclassifications were made to the prior year's consolidated financial
statements to conform to the current year presentation.

  

66

* * *

Table of Contents

Our Divisions

We are organized into seven reportable segments (also referred to as
divisions), as follows:

1)Frito-Lay North America (FLNA), which includes our branded convenient food
businesses in the United States and Canada;

2)Quaker Foods North America (QFNA), which includes our branded convenient
food businesses, such as cereal, rice, pasta and other branded food, in the
United States and Canada;

3)PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA), which includes our beverage
businesses in the United States and Canada;

4)Latin America (LatAm), which includes all of our beverage and convenient
food businesses in Latin America;

5)Europe, which includes all of our beverage and convenient food businesses in
Europe;

6)Africa, Middle East and South Asia (AMESA), which includes all of our
beverage and convenient food businesses in Africa, the Middle East and South
Asia; and

7)Asia Pacific, Australia, and New Zealand and China region (APAC), which
includes all of our beverage and convenient food businesses in Asia Pacific,
Australia and New Zealand, and China region.

Through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other
third parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety of
beverages and convenient foods, serving customers and consumers in more than
200 countries and territories with our largest operations in the United
States, Mexico, Russia, Canada, China, the United Kingdom and South Africa.

The accounting policies for the divisions are the same as those described in
Note 2, except for the following allocation methodologies:

•share-based compensation expense;

•pension and retiree medical expense; and

•derivatives.

Share-Based Compensation Expense

Our divisions are held accountable for share-based compensation expense and,
therefore, this expense is allocated to our divisions as an incremental
employee compensation cost.

The allocation of share-based compensation expense of each division is as
follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
FLNA| 13 | %| | 13 | %| | 13 | %  
QFNA| 1 | %| | 1 | %| | 1 | %  
PBNA| 20 | %| | 19 | %| | 18 | %  
LatAm| 6 | %| | 5 | %| | 6 | %  
Europe| 11 | %| | 13 | %| | 16 | %  
AMESA| 5 | %| | 6 | %| | 6 | %  
APAC| 3 | %| | 2 | %| | 2 | %  
Corporate unallocated expenses| 41 | %| | 41 | %| | 38 | %  
  
The expense allocated to our divisions excludes any impact of changes in our
assumptions during the year which reflect market conditions over which
division management has no control. Therefore, any variances between allocated
expense and our actual expense are recognized in corporate unallocated
expenses.

  

67

* * *

Table of Contents

Pension and Retiree Medical Expense

Pension and retiree medical service costs measured at fixed discount rates are
reflected in division results. The variance between the fixed discount rate
used to determine the service cost reflected in division results and the
discount rate as disclosed in Note 7 is reflected in corporate unallocated
expenses.

Derivatives

We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. These
commodity derivatives include agricultural products, energy and metals.
Commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are
marked to market each period with the resulting gains and losses recorded in
corporate unallocated expenses as either cost of sales or selling, general and
administrative expenses, depending on the underlying commodity. These gains
and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions
recognize the cost of the underlying commodity in operating profit. Therefore,
the divisions realize the economic effects of the derivative without
experiencing any resulting mark-to-market volatility, which remains in
corporate unallocated expenses. These derivatives hedge underlying commodity
price risk and were not entered into for trading or speculative purposes.

Net Revenue and Operating Profit/(Loss)

Net revenue and operating profit/(loss) of each division are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Net Revenue| | Operating Profit/(Loss)  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| |

2022(a)

| | 2021| | 2020  
FLNA| $| 23,291 | | | $| 19,608 | | | $| 18,189 | | | $| 6,135 | | | $| 5,633
| | | $| 5,340 |  
QFNA| 3,160 | | | 2,751 | | | 2,742 | | | 604 | | | 578 | | | 669 |  
  
PBNA (b)

| 26,213 | | | 25,276 | | | 22,559 | | | 5,426 | | | 2,442 | | | 1,937 |  
LatAm| 9,779 | | | 8,108 | | | 6,942 | | | 1,627 | | | 1,369 | | | 1,033 |  
  
Europe (b)

| 12,724 | | | 13,038 | | | 11,922 | | | (1,380)| | | 1,292 | | | 1,353 |  
  
AMESA (c)

| 6,438 | | | 6,078 | | | 4,573 | | | 666 | | | 858 | | | 600 |  
  
APAC (c)

| 4,787 | | | 4,615 | | | 3,445 | | | 537 | | | 673 | | | 590 |  
Total division| 86,392 | | | 79,474 | | | 70,372 | | | 13,615 | | | 12,845 | |
| 11,522 |  
Corporate unallocated expenses| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (2,103)| | |
(1,683)| | | (1,442)|  
Total| $| 86,392 | | | $| 79,474 | | | $| 70,372 | | | $| 11,512 | | | $|
11,162 | | | $| 10,080 |  
  
(a)See below for impairment and other charges taken related to the Russia-
Ukraine conflict, brand portfolio impairment and other impairment.

(b)In 2022, we recorded a gain of $3,029 million and $292 million in our PBNA
and Europe divisions, respectively, associated with the Juice Transaction. The
total after-tax amount was $2,888 million or $2.08 per share. See Note 13 for
further information.

(c)In 2021, the increase in net revenue in our AMESA and APAC divisions
reflect our acquisitions of Pioneer Foods and Be & Cheery, respectively. See
Note 13 for further information.

  

  

68

* * *

Table of Contents

Disaggregation of Net Revenue

Our primary performance obligation is the distribution and sales of beverage
and convenient food products to our customers. The following table reflects
the approximate percentage of net revenue generated between our beverage
business and our convenient food business for each of our international
divisions, as well as our consolidated net revenue:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
|

Beverages(a)

| | Convenient Foods| |

Beverages(a)

| | Convenient Foods| |

Beverages(a)

| | Convenient Foods  
LatAm| 10 | %| | 90 | %| | 10 | %| | 90 | %| | 10 | %| | 90 | %  
Europe| 50 | %| | 50 | %| | 55 | %| | 45 | %| | 55 | %| | 45 | %  
AMESA| 30 | %| | 70 | %| | 30 | %| | 70 | %| | 30 | %| | 70 | %  
APAC| 25 | %| | 75 | %| | 20 | %| | 80 | %| | 25 | %| | 75 | %  
PepsiCo| 40 | %| | 60 | %| | 45 | %| | 55 | %| | 45 | %| | 55 | %  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
  
(a)Beverage revenue from company-owned bottlers, which primarily includes our
consolidated bottling operations in our PBNA and Europe divisions, is
approximately 35% of our consolidated net revenue in 2022 and approximately
40% of our consolidated net revenue in 2021 and 2020. Generally, our finished
goods beverage operations produce higher net revenue, but lower operating
margins as compared to concentrate sold to authorized bottling partners for
the manufacture of finished goods beverages

Impairment and Other Charges

We recognized Russia-Ukraine conflict charges, brand portfolio impairment
charges and other impairment charges as described below.

A summary of pre-tax charges taken in 2022 in our Europe division as a result
of the Russia-Ukraine conflict is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Russia-Ukraine conflict charges  
| Cost of sales| | Selling, general and administrative expenses| |

Impairment of intangible assets(a)

| | Total  
Impairment charges related to intangible assets| $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $|
1,198 | | | $| 1,198 |  
Impairment charges related to property, plant and equipment| 103 | | | 22 | |
| -- | | | 125 |  
Allowance for expected credit losses| -- | | | 12 | | | -- | | | 12 |  
Allowance for inventory write downs| 28 | | | 1 | | | -- | | | 29 |  
Other| 9 | | | 42 | | | -- | | | 51 |  
Total| $| 140 | | | $| 77 | | | $| 1,198 | | | $| 1,415 |  
After-tax amount| | | | | | | $| 1,124 |  
Impact on net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share| | | | | | | $|
(0.81)|  
  
(a)See Note 4 for further information. For information on our policies for
indefinite-lived intangible assets, see Note 2.

  

  

69

* * *

Table of Contents

A summary of pre-tax charges taken in 2022 as a result of our decision to
reposition or discontinue the sale/distribution of certain brands and to sell
an investment is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Brand portfolio impairment charges  
| Cost of sales| | Selling, general and administrative expenses| |

Impairment of intangible assets(a)

| | Total|  
PBNA| $| 26 | | | $| 8 | | | $| 126 | | | $| 160 | | Impairment and other
charges associated with distribution rights and inventory due to the
termination of Bang energy drinks distribution agreement  
LatAm| -- | | | 35 | | | 36 | | | 71 | |

Loss on sale and impairment of intangible assets related to the sale of
certain non-strategic brands  
  
| | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | |  
Europe| 1 | | | 10 | | | 242 | | | 253 | | Primarily impairment of intangible
assets related to the discontinuation or repositioning of certain juice and
dairy brands in Russia  
AMESA| 29 | | | 121 | | | 9 | | | 159 | | Primarily impairment of investment,
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets related to the sale or
discontinuation of non-strategic investment and brands  
APAC| 5 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 5 | |

Impairment of property, plant and equipment related to the discontinuation of
a non-strategic brand in China  
  
| | | | | | | |  
Total| $| 61 | | | $| 174 | | | $| 413 | | | $| 648 | |  
After-tax amount| | | | | | | $| 522 | |  
Impact on net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share| | | | | | | $|
(0.38)| |  
  
(a)See Note 4 for further information. For information on our policies for
indefinite-lived intangible assets, see Note 2.

A summary of pre-tax impairment charges taken in 2022 as a result of our
quantitative assessments of certain of our indefinite-lived intangible assets
is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | | Other impairment charges  
| | | | |

Impairment of intangible assets(a)

| | | |  
FLNA| | | | | $| 88 | | | | | Related to a baked fruit convenient food brand  
Europe| | | | | 1,264 | | | | | Related to the SodaStream brand  
AMESA| | | | | 31 | | | | | Primarily related to certain juice brands from the
Pioneer Foods acquisition  
APAC| | | | | 172 | | | | | Related to the Be & Cheery brand  
Total| | | | | $| 1,555 | | | | |  
After-tax amount| | | | | $| 1,301 | | | | |  
Impact on net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share| | | | | $|
(0.94)| | | | |  
  
(a)See Note 4 for further information. For information on our policies for
indefinite-lived intangible assets, see Note 2.

  

  

70

* * *

Table of Contents

COVID-19 Charges

Operating profit includes certain pre-tax charges taken as a result of the
COVID-19 pandemic related to incremental employee compensation costs, such as
certain leave benefits and labor costs, employee protection costs, allowances
for expected credit losses and upfront payments to customers and their related
adjustments for changes in estimates as conditions improve, inventory write-
downs, product returns and other expenses. These pre-tax charges by division
are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| COVID-19 charges  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
FLNA| $| 25 | | | $| 56 | | | $| 229 |  
QFNA| 1 | | | 2 | | | 15 |  
  
PBNA (a)

| 23 | | | (11)| | | 304 |  
LatAm| 15 | | | 64 | | | 102 |  
Europe| 5 | | | 21 | | | 88 |  
AMESA| 5 | | | 7 | | | 33 |  
APAC| 21 | | | 9 | | | 3 |  
| | | | |  
Total| $| 95 | | | $| 148 | | | $| 774 |  
  
(a)Income amount primarily relates to adjustments for changes in estimates of
allowances for expected credit losses and upfront payments to customers, due
to improved projected default rates and lower at-risk balances.

Corporate Unallocated Expenses

Corporate unallocated expenses include costs of our corporate headquarters,
centrally managed initiatives such as commodity derivative gains and losses,
foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, our ongoing business
transformation initiatives, unallocated research and development costs,
unallocated insurance and benefit programs, tax-related contingent
consideration, certain acquisition and divestiture-related charges, certain
gains and losses on equity investments, as well as certain other items.

Other Division Information

Total assets and capital spending of each division are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Total Assets| | Capital Spending  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
FLNA| $| 11,042 | | | $| 9,763 | | | $| 1,464 | | | $| 1,411 | | | $| 1,189 |  
QFNA| 1,245 | | | 1,101 | | | 93 | | | 92 | | | 85 |  
PBNA| 40,286 | | | 37,801 | | | 1,714 | | | 1,275 | | | 1,245 |  
LatAm| 7,886 | | | 7,272 | | | 581 | | | 461 | | | 390 |  
Europe| 16,230 | | | 18,472 | | | 668 | | | 752 | | | 730 |  
AMESA| 6,143 | | | 6,125 | | | 307 | | | 325 | | | 252 |  
APAC| 5,452 | | | 5,654 | | | 241 | | | 203 | | | 230 |  
Total division| 88,284 | | | 86,188 | | | 5,068 | | | 4,519 | | | 4,121 |  
  
Corporate (a)

| 3,903 | | | 6,189 | | | 139 | | | 106 | | | 119 |  
Total| $| 92,187 | | | $| 92,377 | | | $| 5,207 | | | $| 4,625 | | | $| 4,240
|  
  
(a)Corporate assets consist principally of certain cash and cash equivalents,
restricted cash, short-term investments, derivative instruments, property,
plant and equipment, pension plan assets and tax assets. In 2022, the change
in assets was primarily due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents.

  

  

71

* * *

Table of Contents

Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation and other amortization of
each division are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Amortization of  
Intangible Assets | | Depreciation and  
Other Amortization  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
FLNA| $| 11 | | | $| 11 | | | $| 10 | | | $| 653 | | | $| 594 | | | $| 550 |  
QFNA| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 47 | | | 46 | | | 41 |  
PBNA| 22 | | | 25 | | | 28 | | | 930 | | | 926 | | | 899 |  
LatAm| 3 | | | 4 | | | 4 | | | 306 | | | 283 | | | 251 |  
Europe| 30 | | | 37 | | | 40 | | | 357 | | | 364 | | | 350 |  
AMESA| 4 | | | 5 | | | 3 | | | 179 | | | 181 | | | 149 |  
APAC| 8 | | | 9 | | | 5 | | | 92 | | | 102 | | | 91 |  
Total division| 78 | | | 91 | | | 90 | | | 2,564 | | | 2,496 | | | 2,331 |  
Corporate| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 121 | | | 123 | | | 127 |  
Total| $| 78 | | | $| 91 | | | $| 90 | | | $| 2,685 | | | $| 2,619 | | | $|
2,458 |  
  
Net revenue and long-lived assets by country are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Net Revenue| |

Long-Lived Assets(a)  
  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021  
United States| $| 49,390 | | | $| 44,545 | | | $| 40,800 | | | $| 38,240 | | |
$| 36,324 |  
Mexico| 5,472 | | | 4,580 | | | 3,924 | | | 1,933 | | | 1,720 |  
Russia| 4,118 | | | 3,426 | | | 3,009 | | | 2,538 | | | 3,751 |  
Canada| 3,536 | | | 3,405 | | | 2,989 | | | 2,678 | | | 2,846 |  
  
China (b)

| 2,752 | | | 2,679 | | | 1,732 | | | 1,517 | | | 1,745 |  
United Kingdom| 1,844 | | | 2,102 | | | 1,882 | | | 847 | | | 906 |  
  
South Africa (c)

| 1,837 | | | 2,008 | | | 1,282 | | | 1,327 | | | 1,389 |  
All other countries| 17,443 | | | 16,729 | | | 14,754 | | | 12,885 | | |
13,399 |  
Total| $| 86,392 | | | $| 79,474 | | | $| 70,372 | | | $| 61,965 | | | $|
62,080 |  
  
(a)Long-lived assets represent property, plant and equipment, indefinite-lived
intangible assets, amortizable intangible assets, investments in noncontrolled
affiliates and other investments included in other assets. See Notes 2 and 14
for further information on property, plant and equipment. See Notes 2 and 4
for further information on goodwill and other intangible assets. See Note 14
for further information on other assets. Investments in noncontrolled
affiliates are evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the
operating or macroeconomic environment. These assets are reported in the
country where they are primarily used.

(b)In 2021, the increase in net revenue reflects our acquisition of Be &
Cheery. See Note 13 for further information.

(c)In 2021, the increase in net revenue reflects our acquisition of Pioneer
Foods. See Note 13 for further information.

Note 2 -- Our Significant Accounting Policies

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue when our performance obligation is satisfied. Our primary
performance obligation (the distribution and sales of beverage and convenient
food products) is satisfied upon the shipment or delivery of products to our
customers, which is also when control is transferred. Merchandising activities
are performed after a customer obtains control of the product, are accounted
for as fulfillment of our performance obligation to ship or deliver product to
our customers and are recorded in selling, general and administrative
expenses. Merchandising activities are immaterial in the context of our
contracts. In addition, we exclude from net revenue all sales, use, value-
added and certain excise taxes assessed by government authorities on revenue
producing transactions.

The transfer of control of products to our customers is typically based on
written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. However, our
policy for DSD, including certain chilled products, is to remove and replace
damaged and out-of-date products from store shelves to ensure that consumers
receive the product quality and freshness they expect. Similarly, our policy
for certain warehouse-distributed products

  

72

* * *

Table of Contents

is to replace damaged and out-of-date products. As a result, we record
reserves, based on estimates, for anticipated damaged and out-of-date
products.

Our products are sold for cash or on credit terms. Our credit terms, which are
established in accordance with local and industry practices, typically require
payment within 30 days of delivery in the United States, and generally within
30 to 90 days internationally, and may allow discounts for early payment.

We estimate and reserve for our expected credit loss exposure based on our
experience with past due accounts and collectibility, write-off history, the
aging of accounts receivable, our analysis of customer data, and forward-
looking information (including the expected impact of a high interest rate and
inflationary cost environment), leveraging estimates of creditworthiness and
projections of default and recovery rates for certain of our customers.

We are exposed to concentration of credit risk from our major customers,
including Walmart. We have not experienced credit issues with these customers.
In 2022, sales to Walmart and its affiliates (including Sam's) represented
approximately 14% of our consolidated net revenue, including concentrate sales
to our independent bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to
Walmart.

Total Marketplace Spending

We offer sales incentives and discounts through various programs to customers
and consumers. Total marketplace spending includes sales incentives,
discounts, advertising and other marketing activities. Sales incentives and
discounts are primarily accounted for as a reduction of revenue and include
payments to customers for performing activities on our behalf, such as
payments for in-store displays, payments to gain distribution of new products,
payments for shelf space and discounts to promote lower retail prices. Sales
incentives and discounts also include support provided to our independent
bottlers through funding of advertising and other marketing activities.

A number of our sales incentives, such as bottler funding to independent
bottlers and customer volume rebates, are based on annual targets, and
accruals are established during the year, as products are delivered, for the
expected payout, which may occur after year-end once reconciled and settled.
These accruals are based on contract terms and our historical experience with
similar programs and require management judgment with respect to estimating
customer and consumer participation and performance levels. Differences
between estimated expense and actual incentive costs are normally
insignificant and are recognized in earnings in the period such differences
are determined. In addition, certain advertising and marketing costs are also
based on annual targets and recognized during the year as incurred.

The terms of most of our incentive arrangements do not exceed one year and,
therefore, do not require highly uncertain long-term estimates. Certain
arrangements, such as fountain pouring rights, may extend beyond one year.
Upfront payments to customers under these arrangements are recognized over the
shorter of the economic or contractual life, primarily as a reduction of
revenue, and the remaining balances of $242 million as of December 31, 2022
and $262 million as of December 25, 2021 are included in prepaid expenses and
other current assets and other assets on our balance sheet.

For interim reporting, our policy is to allocate our forecasted full-year
sales incentives for most of our programs to each of our interim reporting
periods in the same year that benefits from the programs. The allocation
methodology is based on our forecasted sales incentives for the full year and
the proportion of each interim period's actual gross revenue or volume, as
applicable, to our forecasted annual gross revenue or volume, as applicable.
Based on our review of the forecasts at each interim period, any changes in
estimates and the related allocation of sales incentives are recognized
beginning in the interim period that they are identified. In addition, we
apply a similar allocation methodology for interim reporting purposes for
certain advertising and other marketing activities. Our annual consolidated
financial statements are not impacted by this interim allocation methodology.

  

73

* * *

Table of Contents

Advertising and other marketing activities, reported as selling, general and
administrative expenses, totaled $5.2 billion in 2022, $5.1 billion in 2021
and $4.6 billion in 2020, including advertising expenses of $3.5 billion in
both 2022 and 2021, and $3.0 billion in 2020. Deferred advertising costs are
not expensed until the year first used and consist of:

•media and personal service prepayments;

•promotional materials in inventory; and

•production costs of future media advertising.

Deferred advertising costs of $40 million and $53 million as of December 31,
2022 and December 25, 2021, respectively, are classified as prepaid expenses
and other current assets on our balance sheet.

Distribution Costs

Distribution costs, including the costs of shipping and handling activities,
which include certain merchandising activities, are reported as selling,
general and administrative expenses. Shipping and handling expenses were $15.0
billion in 2022, $13.7 billion in 2021 and $11.9 billion in 2020.

Software Costs

We capitalize certain computer software and software development costs
incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for
internal use when both the preliminary project stage is completed and it is
probable that the software will be used as intended. Capitalized software
costs include (1) external direct costs of materials and services utilized in
developing or obtaining computer software, (2) compensation and related
benefits for employees who are directly associated with the software projects
and (3) interest costs incurred while developing internal-use computer
software. Capitalized software costs are included in property, plant and
equipment on our balance sheet and amortized on a straight-line basis when
placed into service over the estimated useful lives of the software, which
approximate five to 10 years. Software amortization totaled $123 million in
2022, $135 million in 2021 and $152 million in 2020. Net capitalized software
and development costs were $1.1 billion and $0.8 billion as of December 31,
2022 and December 25, 2021, respectively.

Commitments and Contingencies

We are subject to various claims and contingencies related to lawsuits,
certain taxes and environmental matters, as well as commitments under
contractual and other commercial obligations. We recognize liabilities for
contingencies and commitments when a loss is probable and estimable.

Research and Development

We engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to
invest to accelerate growth and to drive innovation globally. Consumer
research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other
marketing costs. Research and development costs were $771 million, $752
million and $719 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and are
reported within selling, general and administrative expenses.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized and, as a
result, are assessed for impairment at least annually, using either a
qualitative or quantitative approach. We perform this annual assessment during
our third quarter, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. Where we use the qualitative
assessment, first we determine if, based on qualitative factors, it is more
likely than not that an impairment exists. Factors considered include
macroeconomic conditions (including those related to the Russia-Ukraine
conflict and a high interest rate and inflationary cost environment), industry
and competitive conditions, legal and regulatory environment,

  

74

* * *

Table of Contents

historical financial performance and significant changes in the brand or
reporting unit. If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely
than not that an impairment exists, then a quantitative assessment is
performed.

In the quantitative assessment for indefinite-lived intangible assets and
goodwill, an assessment is performed to determine the fair value of the
indefinite-lived intangible asset and the reporting unit, respectively.
Estimated fair value is determined using discounted cash flows and requires an
analysis of several estimates including future cash flows or income consistent
with management's strategic business plans, annual sales growth rates,
perpetuity growth assumptions and the selection of assumptions underlying a
discount rate (weighted-average cost of capital) based on market data
available at the time. Significant management judgment is necessary to
estimate the impact of competitive operating, macroeconomic and other factors
(including those related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict and a high interest
rate and inflationary cost environment) to estimate future levels of sales,
operating profit or cash flows. All assumptions used in our impairment
evaluations for indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill, such as
forecasted growth rates (including perpetuity growth assumptions) and
weighted-average cost of capital, are based on the best available market
information and are consistent with our internal forecasts and operating
plans. A deterioration in these assumptions could adversely impact our
results.

Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a
significant change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. If an
evaluation of the undiscounted future cash flows indicates impairment, the
asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on its
discounted future cash flows.

See Note 4 for further information.

Other Significant Accounting Policies

Our other significant accounting policies are disclosed as follows:

•Basis of Presentation - Note 1 includes a description of our policies
regarding use of estimates, basis of presentation and consolidation.

•Income Taxes - Note 5.

•Share-Based Compensation - Note 6.

•Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans - Note 7.

•Financial Instruments - Note 9.

•Cash Equivalents - Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less.

•Inventories - Note 14. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net
realizable value. Cost is determined using the average; first-in, first-out
(FIFO); or, in limited instances, last-in, first-out (LIFO) methods.

•Property, Plant and Equipment - Note 14. Property, plant and equipment is
recorded at historical cost. Depreciation is recognized on a straight-line
basis over an asset's estimated useful life. Construction in progress is not
depreciated until ready for service.

•Translation of Financial Statements of Foreign Subsidiaries - Financial
statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using
period-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities and average exchange
rates for revenues and expenses. Adjustments resulting from translating net
assets are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive
loss within common shareholders' equity as currency translation adjustment.

  

75

* * *

Table of Contents

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements - Not Yet Adopted

In September 2022, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
guidance to enhance the transparency of supplier finance programs to allow
financial statement users to understand the effect on working capital,
liquidity and cash flows. The new guidance requires disclosure of key terms of
the program, including a description of the payment terms, payment timing and
assets pledged as security or other forms of guarantees provided to the
finance provider or intermediary. Other requirements include the disclosure of
the amount that remains unpaid as of the end of the reporting period, a
description of where these obligations are presented in the balance sheet and
a rollforward of the obligation during the annual period. The guidance is
effective in the first quarter of 2023, except for the rollforward, which is
effective in 2024. Early adoption is permitted. We will adopt the guidance
when effective.

Note 3 -- Restructuring and Impairment Charges

2019 Multi-Year Productivity Plan

We publicly announced a multi-year productivity plan on February 15, 2019
(2019 Productivity Plan) that will leverage new technology and business models
to further simplify, harmonize and automate processes; re-engineer our go-to-
market and information systems, including deploying the right automation for
each market; and simplify our organization and optimize our manufacturing and
supply chain footprint. To build on the successful implementation of the 2019
Productivity Plan, in the fourth quarter of 2022, we expanded and extended the
plan through the end of 2028 to take advantage of additional opportunities
within the initiatives described above. As a result, we expect to incur pre-
tax charges of approximately $3.65 billion, including cash expenditures of
approximately $2.9 billion. These pre-tax charges are expected to consist of
approximately 55% of severance and other employee-related costs, 10% for asset
impairments (all non-cash) resulting from plant closures and related actions
and 35% for other costs associated with the implementation of our initiatives.

The total plan pre-tax charges are expected to be incurred by division
approximately as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| FLNA| | QFNA| | PBNA| | LatAm| | Europe| | AMESA| | APAC| | Corporate  
Expected pre-tax charges| 15 | %| | 1 | %| | 25 | %| | 10 | %| | 25 | %| | 5 |
%| | 4 | %| | 15 | %  
  
A summary of our 2019 Productivity Plan charges is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Cost of sales| $| 33 | | | $| 29 | | | $| 30 |  
Selling, general and administrative expenses | 347 | | | 208 | | | 239 |  
Other pension and retiree medical benefits expense| 31 | | | 10 | | | 20 |  
Total restructuring and impairment charges| $| 411 | | | $| 247 | | | $| 289 |  
After-tax amount| $| 334 | | | $| 206 | | | $| 231 |  
Impact on net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share| $| (0.24)| | |
$| (0.15)| | | $| (0.17)|  
  
  

76

* * *

Table of Contents

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| |

Plan to Date

through 12/31/2022  
  
FLNA | $| 46 | | | $| 28 | | | $| 83 | | | $| 210 |  
QFNA| 7 | | | -- | | | 5 | | | 19 |  
PBNA| 68 | | | 20 | | | 47 | | | 226 |  
LatAm| 32 | | | 37 | | | 31 | | | 171 |  
Europe| 109 | | | 81 | | | 48 | | | 343 |  
AMESA| 12 | | | 15 | | | 14 | | | 82 |  
APAC| 16 | | | 7 | | | 5 | | | 77 |  
Corporate| 90 | | | 49 | | | 36 | | | 229 |  
| 380 | | | 237 | | | 269 | | | 1,357 |  
Other pension and retiree medical benefits income| 31 | | | 10 | | | 20 | | |
98 |  
Total| $| 411 | | | $| 247 | | | $| 289 | | | $| 1,455 |  
  
| | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | |

Plan to Date

through 12/31/2022  
  
Severance and other employee costs| | | | | $| 807 |  
Asset impairments| | | | | 190 |  
Other costs| | | | | 458 |  
Total| | | | | $| 1,455 |  
  
Severance and other employee costs primarily include severance and other
termination benefits, as well as voluntary separation arrangements. Other
costs primarily include costs associated with the implementation of our
initiatives, including contract termination costs, consulting and other
professional fees.

A summary of our 2019 Productivity Plan is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Severance and Other Employee Costs| | Asset  
Impairments| | Other Costs| | Total  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
Liability as of December 28, 2019| $| 128 | | | $| -- | | | $| 21 | | | $| 149
|  
2020 restructuring charges| 158 | | | 33 | | | 98 | | | 289 |  
  
Cash payments (a)

| (138)| | | -- | | | (117)| | | (255)|  
Non-cash charges and translation| (26)| | | (33)| | | 3 | | | (56)|  
Liability as of December 26, 2020| 122 | | | -- | | | 5 | | | 127 |  
2021 restructuring charges| 120 | | | 32 | | | 95 | | | 247 |  
  
Cash payments (a)

| (163)| | | -- | | | (93)| | | (256)|  
Non-cash charges and translation| (15)| | | (32)| | | -- | | | (47)|  
  
Liability as of December 25, 2021

| 64 | | | -- | | | 7 | | | 71 |  
2022 restructuring charges| 243 | | | 33 | | | 135 | | | 411 |  
  
Cash payments (a)

| (90)| | | -- | | | (134)| | | (224)|  
Non-cash charges and translation| (29)| | | (33)| | | -- | | | (62)|  
  
Liability as of December 31, 2022

| $| 188 | | | $| -- | | | $| 8 | | | $| 196 |  
  
(a)Excludes cash expenditures of $1 million in 2022 and $2 million in both
2021 and 2020, reported in the cash flow statement in pension and retiree
medical plan contributions.

Substantially all of the restructuring accrual at December 31, 2022 is
expected to be paid by the end of 2023.

Other Productivity Initiatives

There were no material charges related to other productivity and efficiency
initiatives outside the scope of the 2019 Productivity Plan.

  

77

* * *

Table of Contents

We regularly evaluate different productivity initiatives beyond the
productivity plan and other initiatives described above.

For information on additional impairment charges, see Notes 1 and 4 for brand
portfolio impairment charges, other impairment charges and Russia-Ukraine
conflict charges.

Note 4 -- Intangible Assets

A summary of our amortizable intangible assets is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| Average  
Useful Life (Years)| | Gross| | Accumulated  
Amortization | | Net | | Gross| | Accumulated  
Amortization | | Net | |  
  
Acquired franchise rights (a)

|

56 - 60

| | $| 837 | | | $| (200)| | | $| 637 | | | $| 976 | | | $| (187)| | | $| 789
| | |  
  
Customer relationships

|

10 - 24

| | 571 | | | (237)| | | 334 | | | 623 | | | (227)| | | 396 | | |  
Brands|

20 - 40

| | 1,097 | | | (973)| | | 124 | | | 1,151 | | | (989)| | | 162 | | |  
Other identifiable intangibles|

10 - 24

| | 447 | | | (265)| | | 182 | | | 451 | | | (260)| | | 191 | | |  
Total| | | $| 2,952 | | | $| (1,675)| | | $| 1,277 | | | $| 3,201 | | | $|
(1,663)| | | $| 1,538 | | |  
Amortization expense | | | | | | | $| 78 | | | | | | | $| 91 | | | $| 90 |  
  
(a)Decrease is primarily due to the write-off of our distribution rights for
Bang energy drinks. See Note 1 for further information.

Amortization is recognized on a straight-line basis over an intangible asset's
estimated useful life. Amortization of intangible assets for each of the next
five years, based on existing intangible assets as of December 31, 2022 and
using average 2022 foreign exchange rates, is expected to be as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2024| | 2025| | 2026| | 2027  
Five-year projected amortization| $| 77 | | | $| 76 | | | $| 74 | | | $| 67 |
| | $| 64 |  
  
Depreciable and amortizable assets are evaluated for impairment upon a
significant change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. In these
circumstances, if an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates
impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is
based on discounted future cash flows. Useful lives are periodically evaluated
to determine whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate the
need for revision.

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

In the first quarter of 2022, we discontinued or repositioned certain juice
and dairy brands in Russia in our Europe division. As a result, we recognized
pre-tax impairment charges (included in brand portfolio impairment charges) of
$241 million ($193 million after-tax or $0.14 per share) in impairment of
intangible assets, primarily related to indefinite-lived intangible assets in
the year ended December 31, 2022. See Note 1 for further information.

  

78

* * *

Table of Contents

In the second quarter of 2022, macroeconomic factors, sanctions and other
regulations as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict indicated a material
deterioration of the significant inputs used to determine the fair value of
our indefinite-lived intangible assets in Russia, primarily assumptions
underlying the weighted-average cost of capital. These factors required us to
perform a quantitative assessment, despite the absence of a material adverse
impact on these assets' financial performance (e.g., sales, operating profit,
cash flows). The fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets in
Russia was estimated using discounted cash flows under the income approach,
which we consider to be a Level 3 measurement. We determined that the carrying
value exceeds the fair value, with the decrease in the fair value primarily
attributable to a significant increase in the weighted-average cost of
capital, which reflects the macroeconomic uncertainty in Russia. As a result
of the quantitative assessment, we recorded pre-tax impairment charges of $1.2
billion ($958 million after-tax or $0.69 per share) in impairment of
intangible assets, related to our juice and dairy brands in Russia in our
Europe division, in the year ended December 31, 2022. See Note 1 for further
information.

As discussed in Note 2, we perform our annual impairment assessment on
indefinite-lived intangible assets during our third quarter. The annual
impairment assessment on indefinite-lived intangible assets performed in the
third quarter of 2022, based on best available market information and our
internal forecasts and operating plans at the time, resulted in no impairment.

In the fourth quarter of 2022, macroeconomic conditions including a high
interest rate and inflationary cost environment, coupled with recent business
performance, indicated a deterioration of the significant inputs used to
determine the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets in various
markets, primarily assumptions underlying the weighted-average cost of capital
and the impact of economic uncertainty on current and future financial
performance, and required us to perform a quantitative assessment on certain
assets. The fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets was estimated
using discounted cash flows under the income approach, which we consider to be
a Level 3 measurement. We determined that the carrying value exceeded the fair
value, which reflects the increase in the weighted-average cost of capital as
well as our most current estimates of future sales and their contributions to
operating profit and expected future cash flows (including perpetuity growth
assumptions). As a result of the quantitative assessment, we recorded pre-tax
impairment charges of $1.6 billion ($1.3 billion after-tax or $0.94 per share)
in impairment of intangible assets, primarily related to the SodaStream brand
in our Europe division, in the year ended December 31, 2022. See Note 1 for
further information.

As of December 31, 2022, the estimated fair values of our indefinite-lived
reacquired and acquired franchise rights recorded at PBNA exceeded their
carrying values. However, there could be an impairment of the carrying value
of PBNA's reacquired and acquired franchise rights, as well as further
impairment to the carrying value of the SodaStream brand and goodwill, if
future sales and their contributions to operating profit do not achieve our
expected future cash flows (including perpetuity growth assumptions) or if
macroeconomic conditions result in a future increase in the weighted-average
cost of capital used to estimate fair value.

We did not recognize any impairment charges for goodwill in each of the years
ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020. We did not
recognize any impairment charges for indefinite-lived intangible assets in the
year ended December 25, 2021. In 2020, we recognized pre-tax impairment
charges of $42 million, primarily related to a coconut water brand in PBNA.

For further information on our policies for indefinite-lived intangible
assets, see Note 2.

  

79

* * *

Table of Contents

The change in the book value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is as
follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Balance,  
Beginning  
2021| | Acquisitions/(Divestitures)| | Translation  
and Other| | Balance,  
End of  
2021| | Acquisitions/(Divestitures)| | Impairment| | Translation  
and Other| | Balance,  
End of  
2022  
  
FLNA (a)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Goodwill| $| 465 | | | $| (8)| | | $| 1 | | | $| 458 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- |
| | $| (7)| | | $| 451 |  
Brands| 340 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 340 | | | -- | | | (88)| | | (1)| | | 251
|  
Total| 805 | | | (8)| | | 1 | | | 798 | | | -- | | | (88)| | | (8)| | | 702 |  
QFNA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Goodwill| 189 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 189 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 189
|  
Brands| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total| 189 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 189 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 189 |  
  
PBNA (b)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Goodwill | 12,189 | | | (216)| | | 1 | | | 11,974 | | | -- | | | -- | | |
(27)| | | 11,947 |  
Reacquired franchise rights| 7,107 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 7,107 | | | -- | |
| -- | | | (46)| | | 7,061 |  
Acquired franchise rights| 1,536 | | | 1 | | | 1 | | | 1,538 | | | 230 | | |
-- | | | (10)| | | 1,758 |  
  
Brands (c)

| 3,122 | | | (290)| | | (324)| | | 2,508 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
2,508 |  
Total| 23,954 | | | (505)| | | (322)| | | 23,127 | | | 230 | | | -- | | |
(83)| | | 23,274 |  
LatAm| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Goodwill| 458 | | | -- | | | (25)| | | 433 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 3 | | | 436
|  
  
Brands (d)

| 108 | | | (1)| | | (7)| | | 100 | | | -- | | | (29)| | | 4 | | | 75 |  
Total| 566 | | | (1)| | | (32)| | | 533 | | | -- | | | (29)| | | 7 | | | 511 |  
  
Europe (e)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Goodwill (f)

| 3,806 | | | (28)| | | (78)| | | 3,700 | | | -- | | | -- | | | (54)| | |
3,646 |  
  
Reacquired franchise rights (f)

| 496 | | | (23)| | | (32)| | | 441 | | | -- | | | -- | | | (20)| | | 421 |  
  
Acquired franchise rights (f)

| 172 | | | -- | | | (14)| | | 158 | | | -- | | | (1)| | | (9)| | | 148 |  
  
Brands (g) (h)

| 4,072 | | | -- | | | 182 | | | 4,254 | | | -- | | | (2,684)| | | 94 | | |
1,664 |  
Total| 8,546 | | | (51)| | | 58 | | | 8,553 | | | -- | | | (2,685)| | | 11 | |
| 5,879 |  
AMESA| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Goodwill| 1,096 | | | (2)| | | (31)| | | 1,063 | | | 14 | | | -- | | | (62)| |
| 1,015 |  
  
Brands (i)

| 214 | | | -- | | | (9)| | | 205 | | | -- | | | (36)| | | (13)| | | 156 |  
Total| 1,310 | | | (2)| | | (40)| | | 1,268 | | | 14 | | | (36)| | | (75)| | |
1,171 |  
APAC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Goodwill| 554 | | | 3 | | | 7 | | | 564 | | | -- | | | -- | | | (46)| | | 518
|  
  
Brands (c) (j)

| 445 | | | -- | | | 31 | | | 476 | | | -- | | | (172)| | | (37)| | | 267 |  
Total| 999 | | | 3 | | | 38 | | | 1,040 | | | -- | | | (172)| | | (83)| | |
785 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Total goodwill| 18,757 | | | (251)| | | (125)| | | 18,381 | | | 14 | | | -- |
| | (193)| | | 18,202 |  
Total reacquired franchise rights| 7,603 | | | (23)| | | (32)| | | 7,548 | | |
-- | | | -- | | | (66)| | | 7,482 |  
Total acquired franchise rights| 1,708 | | | 1 | | | (13)| | | 1,696 | | | 230
| | | (1)| | | (19)| | | 1,906 |  
Total brands| 8,301 | | | (291)| | | (127)| | | 7,883 | | | -- | | | (3,009)|
| | 47 | | | 4,921 |  
Total| $| 36,369 | | | $| (564)| | | $| (297)| | | $| 35,508 | | | $| 244 | |
| $| (3,010)| | | $| (231)| | | $| 32,511 |  
  
(a)Acquisitions/divestitures in 2021 primarily reflect purchase price
allocation adjustments related to our acquisition of BFY Brands, Inc. (BFY
Brands). Impairment in 2022 is related to a baked fruit convenient food brand.

(b)Acquisitions/divestitures in 2021 primarily reflect assets reclassified as
held for sale in connection with our Juice Transaction. See Note 13 for
further information. Acquisitions/divestitures in 2022 primarily reflect our
agreement with Celsius to distribute Celsius energy drinks in the United
States. See Note 9 for further information.

(c)Translation and other in 2021 primarily reflects the allocation of the
Rockstar brand to the respective divisions, which was finalized in 2021 as
part of purchase price allocation.

(d)Impairment in 2022 is related to the sale of certain non-strategic brands.
See Note 1 for further information.

(e)Acquisitions/divestitures in 2021 primarily reflect assets reclassified as
held for sale in connection with our Juice Transaction. See Note 13 for
further information.

  

80

* * *

Table of Contents

(f)Translation and other primarily reflects the depreciation of the euro in
2021 and the depreciation of British pound and euro, partially offset by
appreciation of the Russian ruble in 2022.

(g)Impairment in 2022 is related to the SodaStream brand, the decrease in fair
value as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the discontinuation or
repositioning of certain juice and dairy brands in Russia.

(h)Translation and other in 2021 reflects the allocation of the Rockstar brand
from PBNA, which was finalized in 2021 as part of purchase price allocation,
partially offset by the depreciation of the euro.

(i)Impairment in 2022 is primarily related to certain juice brands from the
Pioneer Foods acquisition.

(j)Impairment in 2022 is related to the Be & Cheery brand.

Note 5 -- Income Taxes

The components of income before income taxes are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
United States| | $| 7,305 | | | $| 3,740 | | | $| 4,070 |  
Foreign| | 3,400 | | | 6,081 | | | 4,999 |  
| | $| 10,705 | | | $| 9,821 | | | $| 9,069 |  
  
The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Current:| | | | |  
U.S. Federal| $| 1,137 | | | $| 702 | | | $| 715 |  
Foreign| 1,027 | | | 955 | | | 932 |  
State| 246 | | | 44 | | | 110 |  
| 2,410 | | | 1,701 | | | 1,757 |  
Deferred:| | | | |  
U.S. Federal| 22 | | | 375 | | | 273 |  
Foreign| (709)| | | (14)| | | (167)|  
State| 4 | | | 80 | | | 31 |  
| (683)| | | 441 | | | 137 |  
| $| 1,727 | | | $| 2,142 | | | $| 1,894 |  
  
A reconciliation of the U.S. Federal statutory tax rate to our annual tax rate
is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
U.S. Federal statutory tax rate| 21.0 | %| | 21.0 | %| | 21.0 | %  
State income tax, net of U.S. Federal tax benefit| 1.8 | | | 1.0 | | | 1.2 |  
Lower taxes on foreign results| (1.5)| | | (1.6)| | | (0.8)|  
One-time mandatory transition tax - TCJ Act| 0.8 | | | 1.9 | | | -- |  
| | | | |  
Juice Transaction| (2.4)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Tax settlements| (3.0)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Other, net| (0.6)| | | (0.5)| | | (0.5)|  
Annual tax rate| 16.1 | %| | 21.8 | %| | 20.9 | %  
  
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

In 2022, we recorded $86 million ($0.06 per share) of net tax expense related
to the TCJ Act as a result of correlating adjustments related to a partial
audit settlement with the IRS for tax years 2014 through 2019. In 2021, we
recorded $190 million ($0.14 per share) of net tax expense related to the TCJ
Act as a result of adjustments related to the final assessment of the 2014
through 2016 IRS audit. There were no tax amounts recognized in 2020 related
to the TCJ Act.

  

81

* * *

Table of Contents

As of December 31, 2022, our mandatory transition tax liability was $2.6
billion, which must be paid through 2026 under the provisions of the TCJ Act.
We reduced our liability through cash payments and application of tax
overpayments by $309 million in 2022, $309 million in 2021 and $78 million in
2020. We currently expect to pay approximately $309 million of this liability
in 2023.

The TCJ Act also created a requirement that certain income earned by foreign
subsidiaries, known as global intangible low-tax income (GILTI), must be
included in the gross income of their U.S. shareholder. The FASB allows an
accounting policy election of either recognizing deferred taxes for temporary
differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or recognizing such
taxes as a current-period expense when incurred. We elected to treat the tax
effect of GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred.

Other Tax Matters

In 2021, we received a final assessment from the IRS audit for the tax years
2014 through 2016. The assessment included both agreed and unagreed issues. On
October 29, 2021, we filed a formal written protest of the assessment and
requested an appeals conference. As a result of the analysis of the 2014
through 2016 final assessment, we remeasured all applicable reserves for
uncertain tax positions for all years open under the statute of limitations,
including any correlating adjustments impacting the mandatory transition tax
liability under the TCJ Act, resulting in a net non-cash tax expense of $112
million ($0.08 per share) in 2021.

In 2022, we came to an agreement with the IRS to settle one of the issues
assessed in the 2014 through 2016 tax audit. The agreement covers tax years
2014 through 2019. As a result, we reduced our reserves for uncertain tax
positions, including any correlating adjustments impacting the mandatory
transition tax liability under the TCJ Act, resulting in a net non-cash tax
benefit of $233 million ($0.17 per share) in 2022. Tax years 2014 through 2019
remain under audit for other issues.

On August 16, 2022, the "Inflation Reduction Act" (H.R. 5376) was signed into
law in the United States. We do not currently expect the Inflation Reduction
Act to have a material impact on our financial results, including on our
annual estimated effective tax rate or on our liquidity.

On May 19, 2019, a public referendum held in Switzerland passed the Federal
Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (TRAF), effective January 1, 2020. The
enactment of certain provisions of the TRAF resulted in adjustments to our
deferred taxes. During 2020, we recorded a net tax benefit of $72 million
($0.05 per share) related to the adoption of the TRAF in the Swiss Canton of
Bern.

  

  

  

  

82

* * *

Table of Contents

Deferred tax liabilities and assets are comprised of the following:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021  
Deferred tax liabilities| | |  
Debt guarantee of wholly-owned subsidiary| $| 578 | | | $| 578 |  
Property, plant and equipment| 2,126 | | | 2,036 |  
Recapture of net operating losses| 492 | | | 504 |  
Pension liabilities | 189 | | | 216 |  
Right-of-use assets| 534 | | | 450 |  
Investment in TBG| 186 | | | -- |  
Other| 232 | | | 254 |  
Gross deferred tax liabilities| 4,337 | | | 4,038 |  
| | |  
Deferred tax assets| | |  
Net carryforwards| 5,342 | | | 4,974 |  
Intangible assets other than nondeductible goodwill| 1,614 | | | 1,111 |  
Share-based compensation| 120 | | | 98 |  
Retiree medical benefits| 118 | | | 147 |  
Other employee-related benefits| 349 | | | 379 |  
| | |  
Deductible state tax and interest benefits| 144 | | | 149 |  
Lease liabilities| 534 | | | 450 |  
Capitalized research and development| 150 | | | -- |  
Other| 1,050 | | | 842 |  
Gross deferred tax assets| 9,421 | | | 8,150 |  
Valuation allowances| (5,013)| | | (4,628)|  
Deferred tax assets, net| 4,408 | | | 3,522 |  
Net deferred tax (assets)/liabilities| $| (71)| | | $| 516 |  
  
A summary of our valuation allowance activity is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Balance, beginning of year| $| 4,628 | | | $| 4,686 | | | $| 3,599 |  
Provision| 492 | | | (9)| | | 1,082 |  
Other (deductions)/additions| (107)| | | (49)| | | 5 |  
Balance, end of year| $| 5,013 | | | $| 4,628 | | | $| 4,686 |  
  
  

83

* * *

Table of Contents

Reserves

A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have
established a reserve, is audited and finally resolved. The number of years
with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. Our major
taxing jurisdictions and the related open tax audits are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Jurisdiction

| | Years Open to Audit| | Years Currently Under Audit  
  
United States

| | 2014-2021| | 2014-2019  
  
Mexico

| | 2014-2021| | 2014-2017  
  
United Kingdom

| | 2020-2021| | None  
  
Canada (Domestic)

| | 2016-2021| | 2016-2019  
  
Canada (International)

| | 2010-2021| | 2010-2019  
  
Russia

| | 2019-2021| | None  
  
Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax
planning strategies and transactions, including transfer pricing arrangements,
available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant
judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our
tax positions. We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax
return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are
subject to challenge and that we likely will not succeed. We adjust these
reserves, as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and
circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit, new tax laws, relevant
court cases or tax authority settlements. Settlement of any particular issue
would usually require the use of cash. Favorable resolution would be
recognized as a reduction to our annual tax rate in the year of resolution.

As of December 31, 2022, the total gross amount of reserves for income taxes,
reported in other liabilities, was $1.9 billion. We accrue interest related to
reserves for income taxes in our provision for income taxes and any associated
penalties are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. The
gross amount of interest accrued, reported in other liabilities, was $292
million as of December 31, 2022, of which $4 million of tax benefit was
recognized in 2022. The gross amount of interest accrued, reported in other
liabilities, was $326 million as of December 25, 2021, of which $3 million of
tax benefit was recognized in 2021.

A reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021  
Balance, beginning of year| $| 1,900 | | | $| 1,621 |  
Additions for tax positions related to the current year| 228 | | | 222 |  
Additions for tax positions from prior years| 206 | | | 681 |  
Reductions for tax positions from prior years| (357)| | | (558)|  
Settlement payments| (53)| | | (25)|  
Statutes of limitations expiration| (36)| | | (39)|  
Translation and other| (21)| | | (2)|  
Balance, end of year| $| 1,867 | | | $| 1,900 |  
  
Carryforwards and Allowances

Operating loss carryforwards totaling $32.2 billion as of December 31, 2022
are being carried forward in a number of foreign and state jurisdictions where
we are permitted to use tax operating losses from prior periods to reduce
future taxable income. These operating losses will expire as follows: $0.2
billion in 2023, $27.6 billion between 2024 and 2041 and $4.4 billion may be
carried forward indefinitely. We

  

84

* * *

Table of Contents

establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets if, based on the
available evidence, it is not more likely than not that some portion or all of
the deferred tax assets will be realized.

Undistributed International Earnings

As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $9 billion of undistributed
international earnings. We intend to continue to reinvest $9 billion of
earnings outside the United States for the foreseeable future and while future
distribution of these earnings would not be subject to U.S. federal tax
expense, no deferred tax liabilities with respect to items such as certain
foreign exchange gains or losses, foreign withholding taxes or state taxes
have been recognized. It is not practicable for us to determine the amount of
unrecognized tax expense on these reinvested international earnings.

Note 6 -- Share-Based Compensation

Our share-based compensation program is designed to attract and retain
employees while also aligning employees' interests with the interests of our
shareholders. PepsiCo has granted stock options, RSUs, PSUs and long-term cash
awards to employees under the shareholder-approved PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP). Executives who are awarded long-term incentives based
on their performance may generally elect to receive their grant in the form of
stock options or RSUs, or a combination thereof. Executives who elect stock
options receive four stock options for every one RSU that would have otherwise
been granted. Certain executive officers and other senior executives do not
have a choice and are granted 66% PSUs and 34% long-term cash, each of which
are subject to pre-established performance targets.

The Company may use authorized and unissued shares to meet share requirements
resulting from the exercise of stock options and the vesting of RSUs and PSUs.

As of December 31, 2022, 37 million shares were available for future share-
based compensation grants under the LTIP.

The following table summarizes our total share-based compensation expense,
which is primarily recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses,
and excess tax benefits recognized:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Share-based compensation expense - equity awards| $| 343 | | | $| 301 | | | $|
264 |  
Share-based compensation expense - liability awards| 30 | | | 20 | | | 11 |  
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges| 3 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Restructuring charges| -- | | | 1 | | | (1)|  
Total| $| 376 | | | $| 322 | | | $| 274 |  
Income tax benefits recognized in earnings related to share-based
compensation| $| 62 | | | $| 57 | | | $| 48 |  
  
Excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation

| $| 44 | | | $| 38 | | | $| 35 |  
  
As of December 31, 2022, there was $396 million of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation grants. This
unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-
average period of two years.

Method of Accounting and Our Assumptions

The fair value of share-based award grants is amortized to expense over the
vesting period, primarily three years. Awards to employees eligible for
retirement prior to the award becoming fully vested are amortized to expense
over the period through the date that the employee first becomes eligible to
retire and is no longer required to provide service to earn the award. In
addition, we use historical data to estimate

  

85

* * *

Table of Contents

forfeiture rates and record share-based compensation expense only for those
awards that are expected to vest.

We do not backdate, reprice or grant share-based compensation awards
retroactively. Repricing of awards would require shareholder approval under
the LTIP.

Stock Options

A stock option permits the holder to purchase shares of PepsiCo common stock
at a specified price. We account for our employee stock options under the fair
value method of accounting using a Black-Scholes valuation model to measure
stock option expense at the date of grant. All stock option grants have an
exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date
of grant and generally have a 10-year term.

Our weighted-average Black-Scholes fair value assumptions are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Expected life| 7 years| | 7 years| | 6 years  
Risk-free interest rate| 1.9 | %| | 1.1 | %| | 0.9 | %  
Expected volatility| 16 | %| | 14 | %| | 14 | %  
Expected dividend yield| 2.5 | %| | 3.1 | %| | 3.4 | %  
  
The expected life is the period over which our employee groups are expected to
hold their options. It is based on our historical experience with similar
grants. The risk-free interest rate is based on the expected U.S. Treasury
rate over the expected life. Volatility reflects movements in our stock price
over the most recent historical period equivalent to the expected life.
Dividend yield is estimated over the expected life based on our stated
dividend policy and forecasts of net income, share repurchases and stock
price.

A summary of our stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2022 is
as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

Options(a)

| | Weighted-Average Exercise  
Price| | Weighted-Average Contractual  
Life Remaining  
(years)| |

Aggregate Intrinsic

Value(a)  
  
Outstanding at December 25, 2021| 10,142 | | | $| 110.54 | | | | |  
Granted| 2,422 | | | $| 163.54 | | | | |  
Exercised| (1,578)| | | $| 87.33 | | | | |  
Forfeited/expired| (482)| | | $| 146.13 | | | | |  
Outstanding at December 31, 2022| 10,504 | | | $| 124.63 | | | 6.08| | $|
588,549 |  
Exercisable at December 31, 2022| 4,892 | | | $| 101.02 | | | 3.50| | $|
389,547 |  
Expected to vest as of December 31, 2022| 5,267 | | | $| 144.58 | | | 8.29| |
$| 190,040 |  
  
(a)In thousands.

  

86

* * *

Table of Contents

Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units

Each RSU represents our obligation to deliver to the holder one share of
PepsiCo common stock when the award vests at the end of the service period.
PSUs are awards pursuant to which a number of shares are delivered to the
holder upon vesting at the end of the service period based on PepsiCo's
performance against specified financial performance metrics. The number of
shares may be increased to the maximum or reduced to the minimum threshold
based on the results of these performance metrics in accordance with the terms
established at the time of the award. During the vesting period, RSUs and PSUs
accrue dividend equivalents that pay out in cash (without interest) if and
when the applicable RSU or PSU vests and becomes payable.

The fair value of RSUs and PSUs are measured at the market price of the
Company's stock on the date of grant.

A summary of our RSU and PSU activity for the year ended December 31, 2022 is
as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
  

|

RSUs/PSUs(a)

| | Weighted-Average  
Grant-Date Fair Value| | Weighted-Average Contractual Life  
Remaining (years)| |

Aggregate

Intrinsic

Value(a)  
  
Outstanding at December 25, 2021| 5,977 | | | $| 127.45 | | | | |  
Granted| 2,263 | | | $| 163.02 | | | | |  
Converted| (2,051)| | | $| 120.03 | | | | |  
Forfeited| (475)| | | $| 141.64 | | | | |  
  
Outstanding at December 31, 2022 (b)

| 5,714 | | | $| 143.02 | | | 1.24| | $| 1,032,222 |  
  
Expected to vest as of December 31, 2022 (c)

| 5,979 | | | $| 141.94 | | | 1.17| | $| 1,080,138 |  
  
(a)In thousands. Outstanding awards are disclosed at target.

(b)The outstanding PSUs for which the vesting period has not ended as of
December 31, 2022, at the threshold, target and maximum award levels were
zero, 1 million and 2 million, respectively.

(c)Represents the number of outstanding awards expected to vest, including
estimated performance adjustments on all outstanding PSUs as of December 31,
2022.

Long-Term Cash

Certain executive officers and other senior executives were granted long-term
cash awards for which final payout is based on PepsiCo's Total Shareholder
Return relative to a specific set of peer companies and achievement of a
specified performance target over a three-year performance period.

Long-term cash awards that qualify as liability awards under share-based
compensation guidance are valued through the end of the performance period on
a mark-to-market basis using the Monte Carlo simulation model.

  

87

* * *

Table of Contents

A summary of our long-term cash activity for the year ended December 31, 2022
is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

Long-Term Cash

Award(a)

| |

Balance Sheet Date Fair Value(b)

| | Contractual Life Remaining  
(years)  
Outstanding at December 25, 2021| $| 45,792 | | | | |  
Granted| 18,182 | | | | |  
Vested| (11,364)| | | | |  
Forfeited| (2,356)| | | | |  
  
Outstanding at December 31, 2022 (c)

| $| 50,254 | | | $| 68,167 | | | 1.17  
Expected to vest as of December 31, 2022| $| 46,841 | | | $| 65,835 | | | 1.15  
  
(a)In thousands, disclosed at target.

(b)In thousands, based on the most recent valuation as of December 31, 2022.

(c)The outstanding awards for which the vesting period has not ended as of
December 31, 2022, at the threshold, target and maximum award levels based on
the achievement of its market conditions were zero, $50 million and $101
million, respectively.

Other Share-Based Compensation Data

The following is a summary of other share-based compensation data:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Stock Options| | | | |  
  
Total number of options granted (a)

| 2,422 | | | 2,157 | | | 1,847 |  
Weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted| $| 19.72 | | | $|
9.88 | | | $| 8.31 |  
  
Total intrinsic value of options exercised (a)

| $| 134,580 | | | $| 153,306 | | | $| 155,096 |  
  
Total grant-date fair value of options vested (a)

| $| 9,661 | | | $| 10,605 | | | $| 8,652 |  
RSUs/PSUs| | | | |  
  
Total number of RSUs/PSUs granted (a)

| 2,263 | | | 2,636 | | | 2,496 |  
Weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs/PSUs granted| $| 163.02 | | |
$| 131.81 | | | $| 131.21 |  
  
Total intrinsic value of RSUs/PSUs converted (a)

| $| 329,705 | | | $| 273,878 | | | $| 303,165 |  
  
Total grant-date fair value of RSUs/PSUs vested (a)

| $| 196,649 | | | $| 198,469 | | | $| 235,523 |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
  
(a)In thousands.

As of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, there were approximately
307,000 and 299,000 outstanding awards, respectively, consisting primarily of
phantom stock units that were granted under the PepsiCo Director Deferral
Program and will be settled in shares of PepsiCo common stock pursuant to the
LTIP at the end of the applicable deferral period, not included in the tables
above.

Note 7 -- Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans

Effective December 31, 2022, we merged two U.S. qualified defined benefit
pension plans, PepsiCo Employees Retirement Plan I (Plan I), mostly inactive
participants, and PepsiCo Employees Retirement Plan A (Plan A), mostly active
participants, with Plan I remaining. The accrued benefits offered to the
plans' participants were unchanged. The merger was made to provide additional
flexibility in evaluating opportunities to reduce risk and volatility.
Actuarial gains and losses of the merged plan will be amortized over the
average remaining life expectancy of participants. There is no material impact
to pre-tax pension benefits expense from this merger.

In 2022, we transferred pension and retiree medical obligations of $145
million and related assets to TBG in connection with the Juice Transaction.
See Note 13 for further information.

  

88

* * *

Table of Contents

In 2021, we adopted a change to the Canadian defined benefit plans to freeze
pension accruals for salaried participants, effective January 1, 2024, and to
close the hourly plan to new non-union employees hired on or after January 1,
2022. After the effective date, all salaried participants receive an employer
contribution to the defined contribution plan based on age and years of
service regardless of employee contribution and the opportunity to receive
employer contributions to match employee contributions up to defined limits.
We also adopted a change to the U.K. defined benefit plan to freeze pension
accruals for all participants effective March 31, 2022. After the effective
date, participants have the opportunity to receive employer contributions to
match employee contributions up to defined limits. Pre-tax pension benefits
expense will decrease after the effective dates, partially offset by
contributions to defined contribution plans.

In 2021, we adopted a change to the U.S. qualified defined benefit plans to
transfer certain participants from Plan A to Plan I, effective January 1,
2022. The accrued benefits offered to the plans' participants were unchanged.
There was no material impact to pre-tax pension benefits expense from this
transaction.

In 2020, we adopted an amendment to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans to
freeze benefit accruals for salaried participants, effective December 31,
2025. Since 2011, salaried new hires are not eligible to participate in the
defined benefit plan. After the effective date, all salaried participants
receive an employer contribution to the 401(k) savings plan based on age and
years of service regardless of employee contribution and the opportunity to
receive employer contributions to match employee contributions up to defined
limits. As a result of this amendment, pre-tax pension benefits expense
decreased $70 million in 2021, primarily impacting corporate unallocated
expenses.

In 2020, we approved an amendment to reorganize the U.S. qualified defined
benefit pension plans that resulted in the transfer of certain participants
from Plan A to Plan I and to a newly created plan, PepsiCo Employees
Retirement Hourly Plan (Plan H), effective January 1, 2021. The accrued
benefits offered to the plans' participants were unchanged. The reorganization
facilitated a more targeted investment strategy and provided additional
flexibility in evaluating opportunities to reduce risk and volatility. There
was no material impact to pre-tax pension benefits expense as a result of this
reorganization.

In 2020, we adopted an amendment, effective January 1, 2021, to enhance the
pay credit benefits of certain participants in Plan H. As a result of this
amendment, pre-tax pension benefits expense increased $45 million in 2021,
primarily impacting service cost expense.

Gains and losses resulting from actual experience differing from our
assumptions, including the difference between the actual and expected return
on plan assets, as well as changes in our assumptions, are determined at each
measurement date. These differences are recognized as a component of net gain
or loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss within common shareholders'
equity. If this net accumulated gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the
market-related value of plan assets or plan obligations, a portion of the net
gain or loss is included in other pension and retiree medical benefits
(expense)/income for the following year based upon the average remaining
service life for participants in Plan A (approximately 9 years), Plan H
(approximately 11 years) and retiree medical (approximately 9 years), and the
remaining life expectancy for participants in Plan I (approximately 27 years).
In 2023, we expect the average remaining service life for participants in Plan
H to be approximately 11 years and the average remaining life expectancy for
participants in Plan I to be approximately 26 years.

The cost or benefit of plan changes that increase or decrease benefits for
prior employee service (prior service cost/(credit)) is included in other
pension and retiree medical benefits (expense)/income on a straight-line basis
over the average remaining service life for participants in Plan H, and the
remaining life expectancy for participants in Plan I, except that prior
service cost/(credit) for salaried participants subject to the freeze is
amortized on a straight-line basis over the period up to the effective date of
the freeze.

  

  

89

* * *

Table of Contents

Selected financial information for our pension and retiree medical plans is as
follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension| | Retiree Medical  
| U.S.| | International| |  | |  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
Change in projected benefit obligation| | | | | | | | | | |  
Obligation at beginning of year| $| 16,216 | | | $| 16,753 | | | $| 4,175 | |
| $| 4,430 | | | $| 954 | | | $| 1,006 |  
Service cost| 487 | | | 518 | | | 64 | | | 104 | | | 37 | | | 33 |  
Interest cost| 434 | | | 324 | | | 90 | | | 74 | | | 19 | | | 15 |  
Plan amendments| 10 | | | 23 | | | -- | | | 3 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Participant contributions| -- | | | -- | | | 2 | | | 3 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Experience gain| (3,989)| | | (215)| | | (1,284)| | | (178)| | | (198)| | |
(17)|  
Benefit payments| (412)| | | (976)| | | (127)| | | (106)| | | (81)| | | (83)|  
Settlement/curtailment | (1,109)| | | (220)| | | (5)| | | (99)| | | (14)| | |
-- |  
Special termination benefits| 37 | | | 9 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Other, including foreign currency adjustment| (131)| | | -- | | | (312)| | |
(56)| | | (3)| | | -- |  
Obligation at end of year| $| 11,543 | | | $| 16,216 | | | $| 2,603 | | | $|
4,175 | | | $| 714 | | | $| 954 |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Change in fair value of plan assets| | | | | | | | | | |  
Fair value at beginning of year| $| 15,904 | | | $| 15,465 | | | $| 4,624 | |
| $| 4,303 | | | $| 299 | | | $| 315 |  
Actual return on plan assets| (3,337)| | | 1,052 | | | (1,026)| | | 387 | | |
(68)| | | 20 |  
Employer contributions/funding| 235 | | | 580 | | | 101 | | | 158 | | | 48 | |
| 47 |  
Participant contributions| -- | | | -- | | | 2 | | | 3 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Benefit payments| (412)| | | (976)| | | (127)| | | (106)| | | (81)| | | (83)|  
Settlement| (1,117)| | | (217)| | | (5)| | | (52)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Other, including foreign currency adjustment| (125)| | | -- | | | (374)| | |
(69)| | | (2)| | | -- |  
Fair value at end of year| $| 11,148 | | | $| 15,904 | | | $| 3,195 | | | $|
4,624 | | | $| 196 | | | $| 299 |  
Funded status| $| (395)| | | $| (312)| | | $| 592 | | | $| 449 | | | $| (518)|
| | $| (655)|  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Amounts recognized| | | | | | | | | | |  
Other assets| $| 225 | | | $| 692 | | | $| 708 | | | $| 564 | | | $| -- | | |
$| -- |  
Other current liabilities| (56)| | | (48)| | | (7)| | | (1)| | | (54)| | |
(57)|  
Other liabilities| (564)| | | (956)| | | (109)| | | (114)| | | (464)| | |
(598)|  
Net amount recognized| $| (395)| | | $| (312)| | | $| 592 | | | $| 449 | | |
$| (518)| | | $| (655)|  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss (pre-tax)| | | | | |
| |  
Net loss/(gain)| $| 3,337 | | | $| 3,550 | | | $| 571 | | | $| 696 | | | $|
(320)| | | $| (220)|  
Prior service credit| (21)| | | (63)| | | (9)| | | (11)| | | (25)| | | (34)|  
Total| $| 3,316 | | | $| 3,487 | | | $| 562 | | | $| 685 | | | $| (345)| | |
$| (254)|  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Changes recognized in net (gain)/loss included in other comprehensive loss| |  
Net loss/(gain) arising in current year| $| 254 | | | $| (301)| | | $| (40)| |
| $| (355)| | | $| (114)| | | $| (22)|  
Amortization and settlement recognition| (467)| | | (265)| | | (30)| | | (95)|
| | 14 | | | 14 |  
Foreign currency translation gain| -- | | | -- | | | (55)| | | (3)| | | -- | |
| -- |  
Total| $| (213)| | | $| (566)| | | $| (125)| | | $| (453)| | | $| (100)| | |
$| (8)|  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
Accumulated benefit obligation at end of year| $| 11,104 | | | $| 15,489 | | |
$| 2,483 | | | $| 4,021 | | | | |  
  
The net loss arising in the current year is primarily attributable to a
decrease in the actual return on plan assets offset by the impact of higher
discount rates.

The amount we report in operating profit as pension and retiree medical cost
is service cost, which is the

  

90

* * *

Table of Contents

value of benefits earned by employees for working during the year.

The amounts we report below operating profit as pension and retiree medical
cost consist of the following components:

•Interest cost is the accrued interest on the projected benefit obligation due
to the passage of time.

•Expected return on plan assets is the long-term return we expect to earn on
plan investments for our funded plans that will be used to settle future
benefit obligations.

•Amortization of prior service cost/(credit) represents the recognition in the
income statement of benefit changes resulting from plan amendments.

•Amortization of net loss/(gain) represents the recognition in the income
statement of changes in the amount of plan assets and the projected benefit
obligation based on changes in assumptions and actual experience.

•Settlement/curtailment loss/(gain) represents the result of actions that
effectively eliminate all or a portion of related projected benefit
obligations. Settlements are triggered when payouts to settle the projected
benefit obligation of a plan due to lump sums or other events exceed the total
of annual service and interest cost. Settlements are recognized when actions
are irrevocable and we are relieved of the primary responsibility and risk for
projected benefit obligations. Lump sum payouts are generally higher when
interest rates are lower. Curtailments are recognized when events such as
plant closures, the sale of a business, or plan changes result in a
significant reduction of future service or benefits. Curtailment losses are
recognized when an event is probable and estimable, while curtailment gains
are recognized when an event has occurred (when the related employees
terminate or an amendment is adopted).

•Special termination benefits are the additional benefits offered to employees
upon departure due to actions such as restructuring.

The components of total pension and retiree medical benefit costs are as
follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension| | Retiree Medical  
| U.S.| | International| |  | |  | |  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Service cost| $| 487 | | | $| 518 | | | $| 434 | | | $| 64 | | | $| 104 | | |
$| 86 | | | $| 37 | | | $| 33 | | | $| 25 |  
Other pension and retiree medical benefits (income)/expense:| | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | |  
Interest cost| $| 434 | | | $| 324 | | | $| 435 | | | $| 90 | | | $| 74 | | |
$| 85 | | | $| 19 | | | $| 15 | | | $| 25 |  
Expected return on plan assets| (912)| | | (970)| | | (929)| | | (218)| | |
(231)| | | (202)| | | (16)| | | (15)| | | (16)|  
Amortization of prior service (credit)/cost| (28)| | | (31)| | | 12 | | | (1)|
| | (2)| | | -- | | | (8)| | | (11)| | | (12)|  
Amortization of net losses/(gains)| 149 | | | 224 | | | 196 | | | 29 | | | 77
| | | 61 | | | (14)| | | (14)| | | (23)|  
  
Settlement/curtailment losses/(gains) (a)

| 322 | | | 40 | | | 213 | | | 1 | | | (11)| | | 19 | | | (16)| | | -- | | |
-- |  
Special termination benefits| 37 | | | 9 | | | 19 | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- |
| | -- | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total other pension and retiree medical benefits (income)/expense| $| 2 | | |
$| (404)| | | $| (54)| | | $| (99)| | | $| (93)| | | $| (37)| | | $| (35)| | |
$| (25)| | | $| (26)|  
Total| $| 489 | | | $| 114 | | | $| 380 | | | $| (35)| | | $| 11 | | | $| 49 |
| | $| 2 | | | $| 8 | | | $| (1)|  
  
(a)In 2022 and 2020, U.S. includes a settlement charge of $318 million ($246
million after-tax or $0.18 per share) and $205 million ($158 million after-tax
or $0.11 per share), respectively, related to lump sum distributions exceeding
the total of annual service and interest cost.

  

91

* * *

Table of Contents

The following table provides the weighted-average assumptions used to
determine net periodic benefit cost and projected benefit obligation for our
pension and retiree medical plans:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension| | Retiree Medical  
| U.S.| | International| |  | |  | |  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Net Periodic Benefit Cost| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Service cost discount rate (a)

| 3.1 | %| | 2.6 | %| | 3.4 | %| | 4.2 | %| | 2.7 | %| | 3.2 | %| | 2.8 | %| |
2.3 | %| | 3.2 | %  
  
Interest cost discount rate (a)

| 3.1 | %| | 2.0 | %| | 2.9 | %| | 2.3 | %| | 1.7 | %| | 2.4 | %| | 2.1 | %| |
1.6 | %| | 2.6 | %  
  
Expected return on plan assets (a)

| 6.7 | %| | 6.4 | %| | 6.8 | %| | 5.3 | %| | 5.3 | %| | 5.6 | %| | 5.7 | %| |
5.4 | %| | 5.8 | %  
Rate of salary increases| 3.0 | %| | 3.0 | %| | 3.1 | %| | 3.3 | %| | 3.3 | %|
| 3.3 | %| | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Projected Benefit Obligation| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Discount rate| 5.4 | %| | 2.9 | %| | 2.5 | %| | 5.3 | %| | 2.4 | %| | 2.0 | %|
| 5.4 | %| | 2.7 | %| | 2.3 | %  
Rate of salary increases| 3.2 | %| | 3.0 | %| | 3.0 | %| | 4.2 | %| | 3.3 | %|
| 3.3 | %| | | | | |  
  
(a)2022 U.S. rates reflect remeasurement of a U.S. qualified defined benefit
pension plan in the second quarter of 2022.

  

The following table provides selected information about plans with accumulated
benefit obligation and total projected benefit obligation in excess of plan
assets:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension| | Retiree Medical  
| U.S.| | International| |  | |  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
  
Selected information for plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess
of plan assets

| | | |  
Obligation for service to date| $| (584)| | | $| (1,499)| | | $| (158)| | | $|
(127)| | | | |  
Fair value of plan assets| $| -- | | | $| 705 | | | $| 129 | | | $| 102 | | |
| |  
  
Selected information for plans with projected benefit obligation in excess of
plan assets

| | | | | |  
Benefit obligation| $| (620)| | | $| (1,709)| | | $| (273)| | | $| (286)| | |
$| (714)| | | $| (954)|  
Fair value of plan assets| $| -- | | | $| 705 | | | $| 157 | | | $| 171 | | |
$| 196 | | | $| 299 |  
  
Of the total projected pension benefit obligation as of December 31, 2022,
approximately $625 million relates to plans that we do not fund because the
funding of such plans does not receive favorable tax treatment.

Future Benefit Payments

Our estimated future benefit payments are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2024| | 2025| | 2026| | 2027| | 2028 - 2032  
Pension| $| 945 | | | $| 1,070 | | | $| 910 | | | $| 955 | | | $| 975 | | | $|
5,100 |  
  
Retiree medical (a)

| $| 90 | | | $| 85 | | | $| 80 | | | $| 80 | | | $| 75 | | | $| 330 |  
  
(a)Expected future benefit payments for our retiree medical plans do not
reflect any estimated subsidies expected to be received under the 2003
Medicare Act. Subsidies are expected to be approximately $1 million for each
of the years from 2023 through 2027 and approximately $3 million in total for
2028 through 2032.

These future benefit payments to beneficiaries include payments from both
funded and unfunded plans.

  

92

* * *

Table of Contents

Funding

Contributions to our pension and retiree medical plans were as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pension| | Retiree Medical  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Discretionary (a)

| $| 160 | | | $| 525 | | | $| 339 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $| -- |  
Non-discretionary| 176 | | | 213 | | | 168 | | | 48 | | | 47 | | | 55 |  
Total| $| 336 | | | $| 738 | | | $| 507 | | | $| 48 | | | $| 47 | | | $| 55 |  
  
(a)Includes $150 million contribution in 2022, $500 million contribution in
2021 and $325 million contribution in 2020 to fund our U.S. qualified defined
benefit plans.

We made a discretionary contribution of $125 million to a U.S. qualified
defined benefit plan in January 2023 and expect to make an additional
contribution of $125 million in the third quarter of 2023. In addition, in
2023, we expect to make non-discretionary contributions of approximately $90
million to our U.S. and international pension benefit plans and contributions
of approximately $55 million for retiree medical benefits.

We also regularly evaluate opportunities to reduce risk and volatility
associated with our pension and retiree medical plans.

Plan Assets

Our pension plan investment strategy includes the use of actively managed
accounts and is reviewed periodically in conjunction with plan obligations, an
evaluation of market conditions, tolerance for risk and cash requirements for
benefit payments. This strategy is also applicable to funds held for the
retiree medical plans. Our investment objective includes ensuring that funds
are available to meet the plans' benefit obligations when they become due.
Assets contributed to our pension plans are no longer controlled by us, but
become the property of our individual pension plans. However, we are
indirectly impacted by changes in these plan assets as compared to changes in
our projected obligations. Our overall investment policy is to prudently
invest plan assets in a well-diversified portfolio of equity and high-quality
debt securities and real estate to achieve our long-term return expectations.
Our investment policy also permits the use of derivative instruments, such as
futures and forward contracts, to reduce interest rate and foreign currency
risks. Futures contracts represent commitments to purchase or sell securities
at a future date and at a specified price. Forward contracts consist of
currency forwards.

For 2023 and 2022, our expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets
is 7.4% and 6.7%, respectively. Our target investment allocations for U.S.
plan assets for both 2023 and 2022 are as follows:

| | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Fixed income| 56 | %| |  
U.S. equity| 22 | %| |  
International equity| 18 | %| |  
Real estate| 4 | %| |  
  
Actual investment allocations may vary from our target investment allocations
due to prevailing market conditions. We regularly review our actual investment
allocations and periodically rebalance our investments.

The expected return on plan assets is based on our investment strategy and our
expectations for long-term rates of return by asset class, taking into account
volatility and correlation among asset classes and our historical experience.
We also review current levels of interest rates and inflation to assess the
reasonableness of the long-term rates. We evaluate our expected return
assumptions annually to ensure that they are reasonable. To calculate the
expected return on plan assets, our market-related value of assets for fixed
income is the actual fair value. For all other asset categories, such as
equity securities, we use a

  

93

* * *

Table of Contents

method that recognizes investment gains or losses (the difference between the
expected and actual return based on the market-related value of assets) over a
five-year period. This has the effect of reducing year-to-year volatility.

Plan assets measured at fair value as of year-end 2022 and 2021 are
categorized consistently by Level 1 (quoted prices in active markets for
identical assets), Level 2 (significant other observable inputs) and Level 3
(significant unobservable inputs) in both years and are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Fair Value Hierarchy Level| | 2022| | 2021  
  
U.S. plan assets (a)

| | | | |  
  
Equity securities, including preferred stock (b)

| 1| | $| 4,387 | | | $| 6,387 |  
  
Government securities (c)

| 2| | 1,751 | | | 2,523 |  
  
Corporate bonds (c)

| 2| | 4,245 | | | 6,210 |  
  
Mortgage-backed securities (c)

| 2| | 142 | | | 199 |  
  
Contracts with insurance companies (d)

| 3| | 9 | | | 9 |  
  
Cash and cash equivalents (e)

| 1, 2| | 157 | | | 352 |  
Sub-total U.S. plan assets| | | 10,691 | | | 15,680 |  
  
Real estate commingled funds measured at net asset value (f)

| | | 533 | | | 478 |  
  
Dividends and interest receivable, net of payables

| | | 120 | | | 45 |  
Total U.S. plan assets| | | $| 11,344 | | | $| 16,203 |  
International plan assets| | | | |  
  
Equity securities (b)

| 1| | $| 1,291 | | | $| 2,232 |  
  
Government securities (c)

| 2| | 736 | | | 1,053 |  
  
Corporate bonds (c)

| 2| | 254 | | | 400 |  
  
Fixed income commingled funds (g)

| 1| | 628 | | | 632 |  
  
Contracts with insurance companies (d)

| 3| | 27 | | | 43 |  
Cash and cash equivalents| 1| | 75 | | | 34 |  
Sub-total international plan assets| | | 3,011 | | | 4,394 |  
  
Real estate commingled funds measured at net asset value (f)

| | | 173 | | | 221 |  
Dividends and interest receivable| | | 11 | | | 9 |  
Total international plan assets| | | $| 3,195 | | | $| 4,624 |  
  
(a)Includes $196 million and $299 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively, of
retiree medical plan assets that are restricted for purposes of providing
health benefits for U.S. retirees and their beneficiaries.

(b)Invested in U.S. and international common stock and commingled funds, and
the preferred stock portfolio was invested in domestic and international
corporate preferred stock investments. The common and preferred stock
investments are based on quoted prices in active markets. The commingled funds
are based on the published price of the fund and include one large-cap fund
that represents 10% and 11% of total U.S. plan assets for 2022 and 2021,
respectively.

(c)These investments are based on quoted bid prices for comparable securities
in the marketplace and broker/dealer quotes in active markets. Corporate bonds
of U.S.-based companies represents 32% of total U.S. plan assets for 2022 and
2021.

(d)Based on the fair value of the contracts as determined by the insurance
companies using inputs that are not observable. The changes in Level 3 amounts
were not significant in the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 25,
2021.

(e)Includes Level 1 assets of $216 million for 2021 and Level 2 assets of $157
million and $136 million for 2022 and 2021, respectively.

(f)The real estate commingled funds include investments in limited
partnerships. These funds are based on the net asset value of the appraised
value of investments owned by these funds as determined by independent third
parties using inputs that are not observable. The majority of the funds are
redeemable quarterly subject to availability of cash and have notice periods
ranging from 45 to 90 days.

(g)Based on the published price of the fund.

  

  

94

* * *

Table of Contents

Retiree Medical Cost Trend Rates

The assumed health care cost trend rates are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2023| | 2022  
Average increase assumed| 6 | %| | 6 | %  
Ultimate projected increase | 4 | %| | 4 | %  
  
Year of ultimate projected increase

| 2046| | 2046  
  
These assumed health care cost trend rates have an impact on the retiree
medical plan expense and obligation, however the cap on our share of retiree
medical costs limits the impact.

Savings Plan

Certain U.S. employees are eligible to participate in a 401(k) savings plan,
which is a voluntary defined contribution plan. The plan is designed to help
employees accumulate savings for retirement and we make Company matching
contributions for certain employees on a portion of employee contributions
based on years of service.

Certain U.S. salaried employees, who are not eligible to participate in a
defined benefit pension plan, are also eligible to receive an employer
contribution based on age and years of service regardless of employee
contribution.

In 2022, 2021 and 2020, our total Company contributions were $283 million,
$246 million and $225 million, respectively.

Note 8 -- Debt Obligations

The following table summarizes our debt obligations:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|

2022(a)

| |

2021(a)  
  
Short-term debt obligations (b)

| | |  
Current maturities of long-term debt| $| 3,096 | | | $| 3,872 |  
| | |  
  
Commercial paper (0.1% and 0.1%)

| -- | | | 400 |  
  
Other borrowings (15.0% and 2.2%)

| 318 | | | 36 |  
| $| 3,414 | | | $| 4,308 |  
  
Long-term debt obligations (b)

| | |  
| | |  
  
Notes due 2022 (2.4%)

| $| -- | | | $| 3,868 |  
  
Notes due 2023 (1.7% and 1.5%)

| 3,094 | | | 3,019 |  
  
Notes due 2024 (2.2% and 2.1%)

| 2,867 | | | 2,986 |  
  
Notes due 2025 (2.7% and 2.7%)

| 3,193 | | | 3,230 |  
  
Notes due 2026 (3.1% and 3.2%)

| 2,396 | | | 2,450 |  
  
Notes due 2027 (2.5% and 2.4% )

| 2,523 | | | 2,554 |  
  
Notes due 2028-2060 (2.8% and 2.6%)

| 24,652 | | | 21,759 |  
  
Other, due 2022-2028 (1.3% and 1.3%)

| 28 | | | 32 |  
| 38,753 | | | 39,898 |  
Less: current maturities of long-term debt obligations| 3,096 | | | 3,872 |  
Total| $| 35,657 | | | $| 36,026 |  
  
(a)Amounts are shown net of unamortized net discounts of $227 million and $233
million for 2022 and 2021, respectively.

(b)The interest rates presented reflect weighted-average effective interest
rates at year-end. See Note 9 for further information regarding our interest
rate derivative instruments.

As of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, our international debt of $304
million and $38 million, respectively, was related to borrowings from external
parties, including various lines of credit. These lines

  

95

* * *

Table of Contents

of credit are subject to normal banking terms and conditions and are fully
committed at least to the extent of our borrowings.

In 2022, we issued the following senior notes:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Interest Rate| | Maturity Date| |

Principal Amount(a)

|  
3.200 | %| | July 2029| | £| 300 | |

(b)  
  
3.550 | %| | July 2034| | £| 450 | |

(b)  
  
3.600 | %| | February 2028| | $| 750 | |  
3.900 | %| | July 2032| | $| 1,250 | |  
4.200 | %| | July 2052| | $| 500 | |  
  
(a)Excludes debt issuance costs, discounts and premiums.

(b)These notes, issued in British pounds, were designated as net investment
hedges to partially offset the effects of foreign currency on our investments
in certain of our foreign subsidiaries.

The net proceeds from the issuances of the above notes were used for general
corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper, except for an
amount equivalent to the net proceeds from our 3.900% senior notes due 2032
that will be allocated to fund, in whole or in part, eligible green projects
in the categories of investments in recycling and sustainable plastics and
packaging, decarbonizing our operations and supply chain, water
sustainability, and regenerative agriculture, which promote our selected
Sustainable Development Goals, as defined by the United Nations.

In 2022, we entered into a new five-year unsecured revolving credit agreement
(Five-Year Credit Agreement), which expires on May 27, 2027. The Five-Year
Credit Agreement enables us and our borrowing subsidiaries to borrow up to
$3.8 billion in U.S. dollars and/or euros, including a $0.75 billion swing
line subfacility for euro-denominated borrowings permitted to be borrowed on a
same-day basis, subject to customary terms and conditions. We may request that
commitments under this agreement be increased up to $4.5 billion (or the
equivalent amount in euros). Additionally, we may, once a year, request
renewal of the agreement for an additional one-year period. The Five-Year
Credit Agreement replaced our $3.75 billion five-year credit agreement, dated
as of May 28, 2021.

Also in 2022, we entered into a new 364-day unsecured revolving credit
agreement (364-Day Credit Agreement), which expires on May 26, 2023. The
364-Day Credit Agreement enables us and our borrowing subsidiaries to borrow
up to $3.8 billion in U.S. dollars and/or euros, subject to customary terms
and conditions. We may request that commitments under this agreement be
increased up to $4.5 billion (or the equivalent amount in euros). We may
request renewal of this facility for an additional 364-day period or convert
any amounts outstanding into a term loan for a period of up to one year, which
term loan would mature no later than the anniversary of the then effective
termination date. The 364-Day Credit Agreement replaced our $3.75 billion
364-day credit agreement, dated as of May 28, 2021.

Funds borrowed under the Five-Year Credit Agreement and the 364-Day Credit
Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes. Subject to certain
conditions, we may borrow, prepay and reborrow amounts under these agreements.
As of December 31, 2022, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Five-
Year Credit Agreement or the 364-Day Credit Agreement.

  

  

96

* * *

Table of Contents

In 2022, we paid $750 million to redeem all $750 million outstanding principal
amount of our 2.25% senior notes due May 2022, we paid $800 million to redeem
all $800 million outstanding principal amount of our 3.10% senior notes due
July 2022 and we paid $154 million to redeem all $133 million outstanding
principal amount of our subsidiary, Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company,
Inc.'s 7.00% senior notes due March 2029 and 5.50% notes due May 2035.
Additionally, we deposited $102 million of U.S. government securities with the
Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, in legal defeasance of $94 million
outstanding principal amount of certain notes originally issued by our
subsidiary, The Quaker Oats Company (Quaker notes). PepsiCo will be deemed to
have paid and discharged the Quaker notes on April 12, 2023.

In 2021, we completed cash tender offers to redeem $4.1 billion principal
amount of certain notes, with maturity dates ranging from May 2035 to March
2060 and interest rates ranging from 3.375% to 5.500%, for $4.8 billion in
cash. As a result of the cash tender offers, we recorded a pre-tax charge of
$842 million ($677 million after-tax or $0.49 per share) to net interest
expense and other, primarily representing the tender price paid over the
carrying value of the tendered notes and loss on treasury rate locks used to
mitigate the interest rate risk on the cash tender offers.

Also in 2021, we paid $750 million to redeem all $750 million outstanding
principal amount of our 1.70% senior notes due 2021 and terminated the
associated interest rate swap with a notional amount of $250 million.

In 2020, we paid $1.1 billion to redeem all $1.1 billion outstanding principal
amount of our 2.15% senior notes due 2020 and terminated associated interest
rate swaps with a notional amount of $0.8 billion.

Also in 2020, one of our international consolidated subsidiaries borrowed 21.7
billion South African rand, or approximately $1.3 billion, from our two
unsecured bridge loan facilities (Bridge Loan Facilities) to fund our
acquisition of Pioneer Foods. These borrowings were fully repaid in April 2020
and no further borrowings under these Bridge Loan Facilities are permitted.

Note 9 -- Financial Instruments

Derivatives and Hedging

We are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in:

•commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy;

•foreign exchange rates and currency restrictions; and

•interest rates.

In the normal course of business, we manage commodity price, foreign exchange
and interest rate risks through a variety of strategies, including
productivity initiatives, global purchasing programs and hedging. Ongoing
productivity initiatives involve the identification and effective
implementation of meaningful cost-saving opportunities or efficiencies,
including the use of derivatives. We do not use derivative instruments for
trading or speculative purposes. Our global purchasing programs include fixed-
price contracts and purchase orders and pricing agreements.

Our hedging strategies include the use of derivatives and, in the case of our
net investment hedges, debt instruments. Certain derivatives are designated as
either cash flow or fair value hedges and qualify for hedge accounting
treatment, while others do not qualify and are marked to market through
earnings. The accounting for qualifying hedges allows changes in a hedging
instrument's fair value to offset corresponding changes in the hedged item in
the same reporting period that the hedged item impacts earnings. Gains or
losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive loss within common shareholders' equity and
reclassified to our income statement when the hedged transaction affects
earnings. If it becomes probable that the hedged transaction will not occur,

  

97

* * *

Table of Contents

we immediately recognize the related hedging gains or losses in earnings; such
gains or losses reclassified during the year ended December 31, 2022 were not
material.

Cash flows from derivatives used to manage commodity price, foreign exchange
or interest rate risks are classified as operating activities in the cash flow
statement. We classify both the earnings and cash flow impact from these
derivatives consistent with the underlying hedged item.

Credit Risk

We perform assessments of our counterparty credit risk regularly, including
reviewing netting agreements, if any, and a review of credit ratings, credit
default swap rates and potential nonperformance of the counterparty. Based on
our most recent assessment of our counterparty credit risk, we consider this
risk to be low. In addition, we enter into derivative contracts with a variety
of financial institutions that we believe are creditworthy in order to reduce
our concentration of credit risk.

Certain of our agreements with our counterparties require us to post full
collateral on derivative instruments in a net liability position if our credit
rating is at A2 (Moody's Investors Service, Inc.) or A (S&P Global Ratings)
and we have been placed on credit watch for possible downgrade or if our
credit rating falls below either of these levels. The fair value of all
derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that were
in a net liability position as of December 31, 2022 was $235 million. We have
posted no collateral under these contracts and no credit-risk-related
contingent features were triggered as of December 31, 2022.

Commodity Prices

We are subject to commodity price risk because our ability to recover
increased costs through higher pricing may be limited in the competitive
environment in which we operate. This risk is managed through the use of
fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative
instruments, which primarily include swaps and futures. In addition, risk to
our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from
multiple geographies and suppliers. We use derivatives, with terms of no more
than three years, to hedge price fluctuations related to a portion of our
anticipated commodity purchases, primarily for agricultural products, energy
and metals. Derivatives used to hedge commodity price risk that do not qualify
for hedge accounting treatment are marked to market each period with the
resulting gains and losses recorded in corporate unallocated expenses as
either cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses,
depending on the underlying commodity. These gains and losses are subsequently
reflected in division results when the divisions recognize the cost of the
underlying commodity in operating profit.

Our commodity derivatives had a total notional value of $1.8 billion as of
December 31, 2022 and $1.6 billion as of December 25, 2021.

Foreign Exchange

We are exposed to foreign exchange risks in the international markets in which
our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. Additionally, we are
exposed to foreign exchange risk from net investments in foreign subsidiaries,
foreign currency purchases and foreign currency assets and liabilities created
in the normal course of business. We manage this risk through sourcing
purchases from local suppliers, negotiating contracts in local currencies with
foreign suppliers and through the use of derivatives, primarily forward
contracts with terms of no more than two years. Exchange rate gains or losses
related to foreign currency transactions are recognized as transaction gains
or losses on our income statement as incurred. We also use net investment
hedges to partially offset the effects of foreign currency on our investments
in certain of our foreign subsidiaries.

Our foreign currency derivatives had a total notional value of $3.0 billion as
of December 31, 2022 and $2.8 billion as of December 25, 2021. The total
notional amount of our debt instruments designated as net

  

98

* * *

Table of Contents

investment hedges was $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $2.1 billion as
of December 25, 2021. For foreign currency derivatives that do not qualify for
hedge accounting treatment, gains and losses were offset by changes in the
underlying hedged items, resulting in no material net impact on earnings.

Interest Rates

We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment
opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies. We
use various interest rate derivative instruments including, but not limited
to, interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, Treasury locks
and swap locks to manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange
risk. These instruments effectively change the interest rate and currency of
specific debt issuances. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity
date of the interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps match the
principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. Our cross-
currency interest rate swaps have terms of no more than twelve years. Our
Treasury locks and swap locks are entered into to protect against unfavorable
interest rate changes relating to forecasted debt transactions.

Our interest rate derivatives had a total notional value of $1.3 billion as of
December 31, 2022 and $2.1 billion as of December 25, 2021.

As of December 31, 2022, approximately 1% of total debt was subject to
variable rates, compared to approximately 2%, after the impact of the related
interest rate derivative instruments, as of December 25, 2021.

Debt Securities

Held-to-Maturity

Investments in debt securities that we have the positive intent and ability to
hold until maturity are classified as held-to-maturity. Highly liquid debt
securities with original maturities of three months or less are recorded as
cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2022, we had no investments in held-to-
maturity debt securities. As of December 25, 2021, we had $130 million of
investments in commercial paper recorded in cash and cash equivalents. Held-
to-maturity debt securities are recorded at amortized cost, which approximates
fair value, and realized gains or losses are reported in earnings. As of
December 25, 2021, gross unrecognized gains and losses and the allowance for
expected credit losses were not material.

Available-for-Sale

Investments in available-for-sale debt securities are reported at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale debt securities are generally
recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss within common shareholders'
equity. Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale debt securities impact
earnings only when such securities are sold, or an allowance for expected
credit losses or impairment is recognized. We regularly evaluate our
investment portfolio for expected credit losses and impairment. In making this
judgment, we evaluate, among other things, the extent to which the fair value
of a debt security is less than its amortized cost; the financial condition of
the issuer, including the credit quality, and any changes thereto; and our
intent to sell, or whether we will more likely than not be required to sell,
the debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Our assessment
of whether a debt security has a credit loss or is impaired could change in
the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions related to any
particular debt security.

  

In 2022, we entered into an agreement with Celsius to distribute Celsius
energy drinks in the United States (see Note 4 for further information) and
invested $550 million in Series A convertible preferred shares issued by
Celsius, which included certain conversion and redemption features. The
preferred shares automatically convert into Celsius common shares after six
years if certain market-based conditions are met, or can be redeemed after
seven years. Shares underlying the transaction were priced at $75 per share,

  

99

* * *

Table of Contents

and the preferred shares are entitled to a 5% annual dividend, payable either
in cash or in-kind. Given our redemption right, we classified our investment
in the convertible preferred stock as an available-for-sale debt security.
There were no unrealized gains and losses on our investment as of December 31,
2022. There were no impairment charges related to our investment in the year
ended December 31, 2022.

  

Fair Value Measurements

The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities as of December 31,
2022 and December 25, 2021 are categorized as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | 2022| | 2021  
|

Fair Value Hierarchy Levels(a)

| |

Assets(a)

| |

Liabilities(a)

| |

Assets(a)

| |

Liabilities(a)  
  
Available-for-sale debt securities (b)

| 2| | $| 660 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $| -- |  
  
Index funds (c)

| 1| | $| 257 | | | $| -- | | | $| 337 | | | $| -- |  
  
Prepaid forward contracts (d)

| 2| | $| 14 | | | $| -- | | | $| 21 | | | $| -- |  
  
Deferred compensation (e)

| 2| | $| -- | | | $| 434 | | | $| -- | | | $| 505 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments:

| | | | | | | | |  
  
Foreign exchange (f)

| 2| | $| 24 | | | $| 22 | | | $| 29 | | | $| 14 |  
  
Interest rate (f)

| 2| | -- | | | 164 | | | 14 | | | 264 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
Commodity (g)

| 2| | 2 | | | 60 | | | 70 | | | 5 |  
| | | $| 26 | | | $| 246 | | | $| 113 | | | $| 283 |  
  
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:

| | | | | | | | |  
  
Foreign exchange (f)

| 2| | $| 21 | | | $| 21 | | | $| 19 | | | $| 7 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
  
Commodity (g)

| 2| | 11 | | | 51 | | | 35 | | | 22 |  
| | | $| 32 | | | $| 72 | | | $| 54 | | | $| 29 |  
  
Total derivatives at fair value (h)

| | | $| 58 | | | $| 318 | | | $| 167 | | | $| 312 |  
Total| | | $| 989 | | | $| 752 | | | $| 525 | | | $| 817 |  
  
(a)Fair value hierarchy levels are defined in Note 7. Unless otherwise noted,
financial assets are classified on our balance sheet within prepaid expenses
and other current assets and other assets. Financial liabilities are
classified on our balance sheet within accounts payable and other current
liabilities and other liabilities.

(b)Primarily related to our investment in Celsius convertible preferred stock.
The fair value of our investment approximates the transaction price and any
accrued dividends, as well as the amortized cost. As of December 31, 2022, $3
million, $104 million and $553 million were classified as cash equivalents,
short-term investments and other assets, respectively.

(c)Based on the price of index funds. These investments are classified as
short-term investments and are used to manage a portion of market risk arising
from our deferred compensation liability.

(d)Based primarily on the price of our common stock.

(e)Based on the fair value of investments corresponding to employees'
investment elections.

(f)Based on recently reported market transactions of spot and forward rates.

(g)Primarily based on recently reported market transactions of swap
arrangements.

(h)Derivative assets and liabilities are presented on a gross basis on our
balance sheet. Amounts subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or
similar agreements which are not offset on our balance sheet as of December
31, 2022 and December 25, 2021 were not material. Collateral received or
posted against our asset or liability positions was not material. Exchange-
traded commodity futures are cash-settled on a daily basis and, therefore, not
included in the table.

The carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term
investments recorded at amortized cost approximate fair value (classified as
Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy) due to their short-term maturity. The
fair value of our debt obligations as of December 31, 2022 and December 25,
2021 was $35 billion and $43 billion, respectively, based upon prices of
identical or similar instruments in the marketplace, which are considered
Level 2 inputs.

  

100

* * *

Table of Contents

Losses/(gains) on our hedging instruments are categorized as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Fair Value/Non-  
designated Hedges| | Cash Flow and Net Investment Hedges  
|

Losses/(Gains)

Recognized in

Income Statement(a)

| | Losses/(Gains)  
Recognized in  
Accumulated Other  
Comprehensive Loss| |

Losses/(Gains)

Reclassified from

Accumulated Other

Comprehensive Loss

into Income

Statement(b)  
  
2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021| | 2022| | 2021  
Foreign exchange | $| (58)| | | $| (4)| | | $| (3)| | | $| (7)| | | $| (21)| |
| $| 82 |  
Interest| -- | | | 56 | | | 138 | | | 44 | | | 159 | | | 64 |  
Commodity | (179)| | | (218)| | | (57)| | | (285)| | | (267)| | | (194)|  
Net investment| -- | | | -- | | | (120)| | | (192)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Total| $| (237)| | | $| (166)| | | $| (42)| | | $| (440)| | | $| (129)| | | $|
(48)|  
  
(a)Foreign exchange derivative losses/gains are included in selling, general
and administrative expenses. Commodity derivative gains included in cost of
sales totaled $8 million in 2022 and $109 million in 2021 and commodity
derivative gains included in selling, general and administrative expenses
totaled $171 million in 2022 and $109 million in 2021.

(b)Foreign exchange derivative losses/gains are included in net revenue and
cost of sales. Interest rate derivative losses/gains on cross-currency
interest rate swaps are included in selling, general and administrative
expenses. Commodity derivative losses/gains are included in either cost of
sales or selling, general and administrative expenses, depending on the
underlying commodity. See Note 11 for further information.

Based on current market conditions, we expect to reclassify net losses of $51
million related to our cash flow hedges from accumulated other comprehensive
loss within common shareholders' equity into net income during the next 12
months.

Note 10 -- Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share

The computations of basic and diluted net income attributable to PepsiCo per
common share are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
| Income| |

Shares(a)

| | Income| |

Shares(a)

| | Income| |

Shares(a)  
  
Basic net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share

| $| 6.45 | | | | | $| 5.51 | | | | | $| 5.14 | | |  
  
Net income available for PepsiCo common shareholders

| $| 8,910 | | | 1,380 | | | $| 7,618 | | | 1,382 | | | $| 7,120 | | | 1,385 |  
Dilutive securities:| | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Stock options, RSUs, PSUs and other (b)

| -- | | | 7 | | | -- | | | 7 | | | -- | | | 7 |  
| | | | | | | | | | |  
  
Diluted

| $| 8,910 | | | 1,387 | | | $| 7,618 | | | 1,389 | | | $| 7,120 | | | 1,392 |  
  
Diluted net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share

| $| 6.42 | | | | | $| 5.49 | | | | | $| 5.12 | | |  
  
(a)Weighted-average common shares outstanding (in millions).

(b)The dilutive effect of these securities is calculated using the treasury
stock method.

The weighted-average amount of antidilutive securities excluded from the
calculation of diluted earnings per common share was immaterial for the years
ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020.

  

101

* * *

Table of Contents

Note 11 -- Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Attributable to PepsiCo

The changes in the balances of each component of accumulated other
comprehensive loss attributable to PepsiCo are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Currency Translation Adjustment| | Cash Flow Hedges| | Pension and Retiree
Medical| |

Other(a)

| | Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Attributable to PepsiCo  
  
Balance as of December 28, 2019 (b)

| $| (11,290)| | | $| (3)| | | $| (2,988)| | | $| (19)| | | $| (14,300)|  
  
Other comprehensive income/(loss) before reclassifications (c)

| (710)| | | 126 | | | (1,141)| | | (1)| | | (1,726)|  
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss| -- | | |
(116)| | | 465 | | | -- | | | 349 |  
Net other comprehensive income/(loss)| (710)| | | 10 | | | (676)| | | (1)| | |
(1,377)|  
Tax amounts| 60 | | | (3)| | | 144 | | | -- | | | 201 |  
  
Balance as of December 26, 2020 (b)

| (11,940)| | | 4 | | | (3,520)| | | (20)| | | (15,476)|  
  
Other comprehensive (loss)/income before reclassifications (d)

| (340)| | | 248 | | | 702 | | | 22 | | | 632 |  
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss| 18 | | | (48)|
| | 299 | | | -- | | | 269 |  
Net other comprehensive (loss)/income| (322)| | | 200 | | | 1,001 | | | 22 | |
| 901 |  
Tax amounts| (47)| | | (45)| | | (231)| | | -- | | | (323)|  
  
Balance as of December 25, 2021 (b)

| (12,309)| | | 159 | | | (2,750)| | | 2 | | | (14,898)|  
  
Other comprehensive (loss)/income before reclassifications (e)

| (603)| | | (78)| | | 48 | | | 8 | | | (625)|  
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss| -- | | |
(129)| | | 440 | | | -- | | | 311 |  
Net other comprehensive (loss)/income| (603)| | Ye| (207)| | | 488 | | | 8 | |
| (314)|  
Tax amounts| (36)| | | 49 | | | (99)| | | (4)| | | (90)|  
  
Balance as of December 31, 2022 (b)

| $| (12,948)| | | $| 1 | | | $| (2,361)| | | $| 6 | | | $| (15,302)|  
  
(a)The change in 2021 primarily comprises fair value increases in available-
for-sale securities.

(b)Pension and retiree medical amounts are net of taxes of $1,370 million as
of December 28, 2019, $1,514 million as of December 26, 2020, $1,283 million
as of December 25, 2021 and $1,184 million as of December 31, 2022.

(c)Currency translation adjustment primarily reflects depreciation of the
Russian ruble and Mexican peso.

(d)Currency translation adjustment primarily reflects depreciation of the
Turkish lira, Swiss franc and Mexican peso.

(e)Currency translation adjustment primarily reflects depreciation of the
Egyptian pound and British pound sterling.

  

102

* * *

Table of Contents

The following table summarizes the reclassifications from accumulated other
comprehensive loss to the income statement:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Amount Reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss| | Affected
Line Item in the Income Statement  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| |  
Currency translation:| | | | | | |  
Divestitures| $| -- | | | $| 18 | | | $| -- | | | Selling, general and
administrative expenses  
| | | | | | |  
Cash flow hedges:| | | | | | |  
Foreign exchange contracts| $| (11)| | | $| 6 | | | $| -- | | | Net revenue  
Foreign exchange contracts| (10)| | | 76 | | | (43)| | | Cost of sales  
Interest rate derivatives| 159 | | | 64 | | | (129)| | | Selling, general and
administrative expenses  
Commodity contracts| (252)| | | (190)| | | 50 | | | Cost of sales  
Commodity contracts| (15)| | | (4)| | | 6 | | | Selling, general and
administrative expenses  
Net gains before tax| (129)| | | (48)| | | (116)| | |  
Tax amounts| 23 | | | 11 | | | 29 | | |  
Net (gains) after tax| $| (106)| | | $| (37)| | | $| (87)| | |  
| | | | | | |  
Pension and retiree medical items:| | | | | | |  
Amortization of net prior service credit| $| (37)| | | $| (44)| | | $| -- | |
| Other pension and retiree medical benefits income  
Amortization of net losses| 164 | | | 289 | | | 238 | | | Other pension and
retiree medical benefits income  
Settlement/curtailment losses| 313 | | | 54 | | | 227 | | | Other pension and
retiree medical benefits income  
Net losses before tax| 440 | | | 299 | | | 465 | | |  
Tax amounts| (80)| | | (65)| | | (101)| | |  
Net losses after tax| $| 360 | | | $| 234 | | | $| 364 | | |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
Total net losses reclassified for the year, net of tax| $| 254 | | | $| 215 |
| | $| 277 | | |  
  
Note 12 -- Leases

Lessee

We determine whether an arrangement is a lease at inception. We have operating
leases for plants, warehouses, distribution centers, storage facilities,
offices and other facilities, as well as machinery and equipment, including
fleet. Our leases generally have remaining lease terms of up to 20 years, some
of which include options to extend the lease term for up to five years and
some of which include options to terminate the lease within one year. We
consider these options in determining the lease term used to establish our
right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. Our lease agreements do not contain
any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants.

As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental
borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in
determining the present value of lease payments.

We have lease agreements that contain both lease and non-lease components. For
real estate leases, we account for lease components together with non-lease
components (e.g., common-area maintenance).

  

103

* * *

Table of Contents

Components of lease cost are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Operating lease cost (a)

| $| 585 | | | $| 563 | | | $| 539 |  
  
Variable lease cost (b)

| $| 115 | | | $| 112 | | | $| 111 |  
  
Short-term lease cost (c)

| $| 510 | | | $| 469 | | | $| 436 |  
  
(a)Includes right-of-use asset amortization of $517 million, $505 million, and
$478 million in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.

(b)Primarily related to adjustments for inflation, common-area maintenance and
property tax.

(c)Not recorded on our balance sheet.

In 2022, 2021 and 2020, we recognized gains of $175 million, $42 million and
$7 million, respectively, on sale-leaseback transactions with terms under five
years.

Supplemental cash flow information and non-cash activity related to our
operating leases are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Operating cash flow information:| | | | |  
  
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities

| $| 573 | | | $| 567 | | | $| 555 |  
Non-cash activity:| | | | |  
  
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations

| $| 871 | | | $| 934 | | | $| 621 |  
  
Supplemental balance sheet information related to our operating leases is as
follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | | | |  
| | Balance Sheet Classification| | 2022| | 2021  
  
Right-of-use assets

| | Other assets| | $| 2,373 | | | $| 2,020 |  
  
Current lease liabilities

| | Accounts payable and other current liabilities| | $| 483 | | | $| 446 |  
  
Non-current lease liabilities

| | Other liabilities| | $| 1,933 | | | $| 1,598 |  
  
Weighted-average remaining lease term and discount rate for our operating
leases are as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Weighted-average remaining lease term| 7 years| | 7 years| | 6 years  
Weighted-average discount rate| 3 | %| | 3 | %| | 4 | %  
  
Maturities of lease liabilities by year for our operating leases are as
follows:

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
2023| $| 541 |  
2024| 465 |  
2025| 386 |  
2026| 326 |  
2027| 266 |  
2028 and beyond| 718 |  
Total lease payments| 2,702 |  
Less: Imputed interest| 286 |  
Present value of lease liabilities| $| 2,416 |  
  
Lessor

We have various arrangements for certain foodservice and vending equipment
under which we are the lessor. These leases meet the criteria for operating
lease classification. Lease income associated with these leases is not
material.

  

  

  

104

* * *

Table of Contents

Note 13 -- Acquisitions and Divestitures

Juice Transaction

In the first quarter of 2022, we sold our Tropicana, Naked and other select
juice brands to PAI Partners for approximately $3.5 billion in cash, subject
to purchase price adjustments, and a 39% noncontrolling interest in TBG,
operating across North America and Europe. The North America portion of the
transaction was completed on January 24, 2022 and the Europe portion of the
transaction was completed on February 1, 2022. In the United States, PepsiCo
acts as the exclusive distributor for TBG's portfolio of brands for small-
format and foodservice customers with chilled DSD. We have significant
influence over our investment in TBG and account for our investment under the
equity method, recognizing our proportionate share of TBG's earnings on our
income statement (recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses).

As a result of this transaction, in the year ended December 31, 2022, we
recorded a gain in our PBNA and Europe divisions (see detailed income
statement activity below), including $520 million related to the remeasurement
of our 39% ownership in TBG at fair value using a combination of the
transaction price, discounted cash flows and an option pricing model related
to our liquidation preference in TBG. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we
reached an agreement on final purchase price adjustments for net working
capital and net debt amounts as of the transaction close date compared to
targeted amounts set forth in the purchase agreement.

A summary of income statement activity related to the Juice Transaction for
the year ended December 31, 2022 is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| PBNA| | Europe| | Corporate| | Total PepsiCo| |

Provision for income taxes(a)

| | Net income attributable to PepsiCo| | Impact on net income attributable to
PepsiCo per common share|  
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction| $| (3,029)| | | $| (292)| | | $|
-- | | | $| (3,321)| | | $| 433 | | | $| (2,888)| | | $| 2.08 | |  
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges| 51 | | | 14 | | | 6 | | | 71 | |
| (13)| | | 58 | | | (0.04)| |  
Operating profit| $| (2,978)| | | $| (278)| | | $| 6 | | | (3,250)| | | 420 |
| | (2,830)| | | 2.04 | |  
  
Other pension and retiree medical benefits income (b)

| | | | | | | (10)| | | 3 | | | (7)| | | 0.01 | |  
Total Juice Transaction| | | | | | | $| (3,260)| | | $| 423 | | | $| (2,837)|
| | $| 2.04 | |

(c)  
  
(a) Includes $186 million of deferred tax expense related to the recognition
of our investment in TBG.

(b) Includes $16 million curtailment gain, partially offset by $6 million
special termination benefits.

(c) Does not sum due to rounding.

In connection with the sale, we entered into a transition services agreement
with PAI Partners, under which we provide certain services to TBG to help
facilitate an orderly transition of the business following the sale. In return
for these services, TBG is required to pay certain agreed upon fees to
reimburse us for our costs without markup.

As of December 25, 2021, $1.8 billion of assets, primarily accounts
receivable, net, and inventories of $0.5 billion, goodwill and other
intangible assets of $0.6 billion and property, plant and equipment of $0.5
billion, and liabilities of $0.8 billion, primarily accounts payable and other
liabilities of $0.6 billion and deferred income taxes of $0.2 billion, related
to the Juice Transaction were reclassified as held for sale in our
consolidated balance sheet. The Juice Transaction did not meet the criteria to
be classified as discontinued operations. As of December 31, 2022, there were
no amounts classified as held for sale.

  

105

* * *

Table of Contents

2020 Acquisitions

On March 23, 2020, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Pioneer Foods,
a food and beverage company in South Africa with exports to countries across
the globe, for 110.00 South African rand per share in cash. The total
consideration transferred was approximately $1.2 billion and was funded by two
unsecured bridge loan facilities entered into by one of our international
consolidated subsidiaries, which were fully repaid in April 2020.

In connection with our acquisition of Pioneer Foods, we have made certain
commitments to the South Africa Competition Commission, including a commitment
to provide the equivalent of 8.8 billion South African rand, or approximately
$0.5 billion as of the acquisition date, in value for the benefit of our
employees, agricultural development, education, developing Pioneer Foods'
operations and enterprise development programs in South Africa. Included in
this commitment is 2.3 billion South African rand, or approximately $0.1
billion, relating to the implementation of an employee ownership plan and an
agricultural, entrepreneurship and educational development fund, which is an
irrevocable condition of the acquisition. This commitment was recorded in
selling, general and administrative expenses primarily in the year ended
December 26, 2020 and was primarily settled in the fourth quarter of 2021. The
remaining commitment of 6.5 billion South African rand, or approximately $0.4
billion as of the acquisition date, relates to capital expenditures and/or
business-related costs which will be incurred and recorded over a five-year
period from the acquisition date.

On April 24, 2020, we acquired Rockstar, an energy drink maker with whom we
had a distribution agreement prior to the acquisition, for an upfront cash
payment of approximately $3.85 billion and contingent consideration related to
estimated future tax benefits associated with the acquisition of approximately
$0.88 billion. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we exercised our option to
accelerate all remaining payments due under the contingent consideration
arrangement.

On June 1, 2020, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Be & Cheery, one
of the largest online convenient food companies in China, from Haoxiangni
Health Food Co., Ltd. for cash. The total consideration transferred was
approximately $0.7 billion.

We accounted for the 2020 transactions as business combinations. We recognized
and measured the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their
estimated fair values on the respective dates of acquisition. The purchase
price allocations for each of the 2020 acquisitions were finalized in the
second quarter of 2021. The fair value of identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in the acquisitions of Pioneer Foods, Rockstar and Be &
Cheery and the resulting goodwill as of the respective acquisition dates is
summarized as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Pioneer Foods| | Rockstar| | Be & Cheery  
Acquisition date| March 23, 2020| | April 24, 2020| | June 1, 2020  
Inventories| $| 229 | | | $| 52 | | | $| 45 |  
Property, plant and equipment| 379 | | | 8 | | | 60 |  
Amortizable intangible assets| 52 | | | -- | | | 98 |  
Nonamortizable intangible assets| 183 | | | 2,400 | | | 309 |  
Other assets and liabilities| (53)| | | (9)| | | (24)|  
Net deferred income taxes| (117)| | | -- | | | (99)|  
Noncontrolling interest| (5)| | | -- | | | -- |  
Total identifiable net assets| 668 | | | 2,451 | | | 389 |  
Goodwill| 558 | | | 2,278 | | | 309 |  
Total purchase price| $| 1,226 | | | $| 4,729 | | | $| 698 |  
  
  

106

* * *

Table of Contents

Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the
consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets recognized.

The goodwill recorded as part of the acquisition of Pioneer Foods primarily
reflects synergies expected to arise from our combined brand portfolios and
distribution networks, and is not deductible for tax purposes. All of the
goodwill is recorded in the AMESA division.

The goodwill recorded as part of the acquisition of Rockstar primarily
represents the value of PepsiCo's expected new innovation in the energy
category and is deductible for tax purposes. All of the goodwill is recorded
in the PBNA division.

The goodwill recorded as part of the acquisition of Be & Cheery primarily
reflects growth opportunities for PepsiCo as we leverage Be & Cheery's direct-
to-consumer and supply chain capabilities and is not deductible for tax
purposes. All of the goodwill is recorded in the APAC division.

Acquisition and Divestiture-Related Charges

Acquisition and divestiture-related charges primarily include fair value
adjustments to the acquired inventory included in the acquisition-date balance
sheets (recorded in cost of sales), merger and integration charges and costs
associated with divestitures (recorded in selling, general and administrative
expenses). Merger and integration charges include liabilities to support
socioeconomic programs in South Africa, gains associated with contingent
consideration, employee-related costs, contract termination costs, closing
costs and other integration costs. Divestiture-related charges reflect
transaction expenses, including consulting, advisory and other professional
fees.

A summary of our acquisition and divestiture-related charges is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
Cost of sales| $| -- | | | $| 1 | | | $| 32 |  
  
Selling, general and administrative expenses (a)

| 74 | | | (5)| | | 223 |  
Other pension and retiree medical benefits expense| 6 | | | -- | | | -- |  
Total| $| 80 | | | $| (4)| | | $| 255 |  
  
After-tax amount (b)

| $| 66 | | | $| (27)| | | $| 237 |  
Impact on net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share| $| (0.05)| | |
$| 0.02 | | | $| (0.17)|  
  
(a)The income amount primarily relates to the acceleration payment made in the
fourth quarter of 2021 under the contingent consideration arrangement
associated with our acquisition of Rockstar, which is partially offset by
other acquisition and divestiture-related charges.

(b)In 2021, includes a tax benefit related to contributions to socioeconomic
programs in South Africa.

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020| | Transaction  
FLNA| $| -- | | | $| 2 | | | $| 29 | | | BFY Brands  
PBNA| 51 | | | 11 | | | 66 | | | Juice Transaction, Rockstar  
Europe| 14 | | | 8 | | | -- | | | Juice Transaction  
AMESA| 3 | | | 10 | | | 173 | | | Pioneer Foods, Other  
APAC| -- | | | 4 | | | 7 | | | Be & Cheery  
  
Corporate (a)

| 6 | | | (39)| | | (20)| | | Juice Transaction, Rockstar  
Total| 74 | | | (4)| | | 255 | | |  
Other pension and retiree medical benefits expense| 6 | | | -- | | | -- | | |
Juice Transaction  
Total acquisition and divestiture-related charges| $| 80 | | | $| (4)| | | $|
255 | | |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
  
(a)In 2021, the income amount primarily relates to the acceleration payment
made in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the contingent consideration
arrangement associated with our acquisition of Rockstar, which is partially
offset by divestiture-related charges associated with the Juice Transaction.
In 2020, the income amount primarily relates to the change in the fair value
of the Rockstar contingent consideration.

  

107

* * *

Table of Contents

Note 14 -- Supplemental Financial Information

Balance Sheet

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | | 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Accounts and notes receivable (a)

| | | | | | |  
Trade receivables| | | $| 8,192 | | | $| 7,172 | | |  
Other receivables| | | 2,121 | | | 1,655 | | |  
Total| | | 10,313 | | | 8,827 | | |  
Allowance, beginning of year| | | 147 | | | 201 | | | $| 105 |  
Cumulative effect of accounting change| | | -- | | | -- | | | 44 |  
  
Net amounts charged to expense (b)

| | | 21 | | | (19)| | | 79 |  
  
Deductions (c)

| | | (12)| | | (25)| | | (32)|  
  
Other (d)

| | | (6)| | | (10)| | | 5 |  
Allowance, end of year| | | 150 | | | 147 | | | $| 201 |  
Net receivables| | | $| 10,163 | | | $| 8,680 | | |  
| | | | | | |  
  
Inventories (e)

| | | | | | |  
Raw materials and packaging | | | $| 2,366 | | | $| 1,898 | | |  
Work-in-process| | | 114 | | | 151 | | |  
Finished goods| | | 2,742 | | | 2,298 | | |  
Total| | | $| 5,222 | | | $| 4,347 | | |  
| | | | | | |  
  
Property, plant and equipment, net (f)

| Average  
Useful Life (Years)| | | | | |  
Land | | | $| 1,142 | | | $| 1,123 | | |  
Buildings and improvements|

15 \- 44

| | 10,816 | | | 10,279 | | |  
Machinery and equipment, including fleet and software|

5 \- 15

| | 33,335 | | | 31,486 | | |  
Construction in progress| | | 4,491 | | | 3,940 | | |  
| | | 49,784 | | | 46,828 | | |  
Accumulated depreciation| | | (25,493)| | | (24,421)| | |  
Total| | | $| 24,291 | | | $| 22,407 | | |  
Depreciation expense| | | $| 2,523 | | | $| 2,484 | | | $| 2,335 |  
| | | | | | |  
Other assets| | | | | | |  
Noncurrent notes and accounts receivable| | | $| 202 | | | $| 111 | | |  
Deferred marketplace spending| | | 123 | | | 119 | | |  
  
Pension plans (g)

| | | 948 | | | 1,260 | | |  
  
Right-of-use assets (h)

| | | 2,373 | | | 2,020 | | |  
  
Other investments (i)

| | | 813 | | | 277 | | |  
Other| | | 833 | | | 694 | | |  
Total| | | $| 5,292 | | | $| 4,481 | | |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
| | | | | | |  
Accounts payable and other current liabilities| | | | | | |  
  
Accounts payable (j)

| | | $| 10,732 | | | $| 9,834 | | |  
Accrued marketplace spending| | | 3,637 | | | 3,087 | | |  
Accrued compensation and benefits| | | 2,519 | | | 2,324 | | |  
Dividends payable| | | 1,610 | | | 1,508 | | |  
  
Current lease liabilities (h)

| | | 483 | | | 446 | | |  
Other current liabilities | | | 4,390 | | | 3,960 | | |  
Total| | | $| 23,371 | | | $| 21,159 | | |  
  
(a)Increase primarily reflects strong revenue performance across much of our
portfolio in 2022.

(b)2021 includes reductions in allowance for expected credit losses related to
COVID-19 pandemic recorded in 2020.

(c)Includes accounts written off.

(d)Includes adjustments related primarily to currency translation and other
adjustments.

  

108

* * *

Table of Contents

(e)Increase reflects higher commodity costs in 2022. Approximately 9% and 7%
of the inventory cost in 2022 and 2021, respectively, were computed using the
LIFO method. The differences between LIFO and FIFO methods of valuing these
inventories were not material. See Note 2 for further information.

(f)See Note 2 for further information.

(g)See Note 7 for further information.

(h)See Note 12 for further information.

(i)Increase in 2022 primarily reflects our investment in Celsius convertible
preferred stock. See Note 9 for further information.

(j)Increase reflects higher commodity costs and capital expenditures in 2022.

Statement of Cash Flows

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021| | 2020  
  
Interest paid (a)

| $| 1,043 | | | $| 1,184 | | | $| 1,156 |  
  
Income taxes paid, net of refunds (b)

| $| 2,766 | | | $| 1,933 | | | $| 1,770 |  
  
(a)2022 excludes the premiums paid in accordance with the debt transactions.
2021 excludes the charge related to cash tender offers. See Note 8 for further
information.

(b)In 2022, 2021 and 2020, includes tax payments of $309 million, $309 million
and $78 million, respectively, related to the TCJ Act.

The following table provides a reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and
restricted cash as reported within the balance sheet to the same items as
reported in the cash flow statement.

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 2022| | 2021  
Cash and cash equivalents| $| 4,954 | | | $| 5,596 |  
| | |  
  
Restricted cash included in other assets (a)

| 146 | | | 111 |  
Total cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash| $| 5,100 | | | $| 5,707 |  
  
(a)Primarily relates to collateral posted against certain of our derivative
positions.

  

109

* * *

Table of Contents

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors

PepsiCo, Inc.:

Opinions on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting

We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet of PepsiCo, Inc.
and Subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021,
the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income, Cash
Flows, and Equity for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2022, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated
financial statements). We also have audited the Company's internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria
established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Company as of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2022, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2022 based on criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

Basis for Opinions

The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Annual
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company's consolidated financial statements and an
opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on
our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal
securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing
procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated
financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures
that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test
basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our
audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

  

110

* * *

Table of Contents

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the
current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that were
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that:
(1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated
financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective,
or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not
alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken
as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below,
providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts
or disclosures to which they relate.

Sales incentive accruals

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
offers sales incentives and discounts through various programs to customers
and consumers. A number of the sales incentives are based on annual targets,
resulting in the need to accrue for the expected liability. These incentives
are accrued for in the "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" line
on the balance sheet. These accruals are based on sales incentive agreements,
expectations regarding customer and consumer participation and performance
levels, and historical experience and trends.

We identified the evaluation of certain of the Company's sales incentive
accruals as a critical audit matter. Subjective and complex auditor judgment
is required in evaluating these sales incentive accruals as a result of the
timing difference between when the product is delivered and when the incentive
is settled. This specifically related to (1) forecasted customer and consumer
participation and performance level assumptions underlying the accrual, and
(2) the impact of historical experience and trends.

The following are the primary procedures we performed to address this critical
audit matter. We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness
of certain internal controls related to the sales incentive process, including
controls related to (1) the accrual methodology, (2) assumptions around
forecasted customer and consumer participation, (3) performance levels, and
(4) monitoring of actual sales incentives incurred compared to estimated sales
incentives in respect of historical periods. To evaluate the timing and amount
of certain accrued sales incentives we (1) analyzed the accrual by sales
incentive type as compared to historical trends to identify specific sales
incentives that may require additional testing, (2) recalculated expenses and
closing accruals on a sample basis,

  

111

* * *

Table of Contents

based on volumes sold and terms of the sales incentives, (3) assessed the
Company's ability to accurately estimate its sales incentive accrual by
comparing previously established accruals to actual settlements, and (4)
tested a sample of settlements or claims that occurred after period end, and
compared them to the recorded sales incentive accrual.

Carrying value of certain reacquired and acquired franchise rights and
SodaStream brand

As discussed in Notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company performs impairment testing of its indefinite-lived intangible assets
on an annual basis during the third quarter of each fiscal year and whenever
events and changes in circumstances indicate that there is a greater than 50%
likelihood that the asset is impaired. The carrying value of indefinite-lived
intangible assets as of December 31, 2022 was $32.5 billion which represents
35% of total assets, and includes PepsiCo Beverages North America's (PBNA)
reacquired and acquired franchise rights which had a carrying value of $8.8
billion as of December 31, 2022.

We identified the assessment of the carrying value of PBNA's reacquired and
acquired franchise rights and the SodaStream brand in Europe as a critical
audit matter. Significant auditor judgment is necessary to assess the impact
of competitive operating and macroeconomic factors on future levels of sales,
operating profit and cash flows. The impairment analysis of these indefinite-
lived intangible assets requires significant auditor judgment to evaluate the
Company's forecasted revenue and profitability levels, including the expected
long-term growth rates and the selection of the discount rates to be applied
to the projected cash flows.

The following are the primary procedures we performed to address this critical
audit matter. We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness
of certain internal controls related to the indefinite-lived assets impairment
process, including controls related to the development of forecasted revenue,
profitability levels, and expected long-term growth rates and select the
discount rates to be applied to the projected cash flows. We also evaluated
the sensitivity of the Company's conclusion to changes in assumptions,
including the assessment of changes in assumptions from prior periods. To
assess the Company's ability to accurately forecast, we compared the Company's
historical forecasted results to actual results. We compared the cash flow
projections used in the impairment tests with available external industry data
and other internal information. We involved valuation professionals with
specialized skills and knowledge who assisted in evaluating (1) the long-term
growth rates used in the impairment tests by comparing against economic data
and information specific to the respective assets, including projected long-
term nominal Gross Domestic Product growth in the respective local countries,
and (2) the discount rates used in the impairment tests by comparing them
against discount rates that were independently developed using publicly
available market data, including that of comparable companies.

Unrecognized tax benefits

As discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company's
global operating model gives rise to income tax obligations in the United
States and in certain foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. As of
December 31, 2022, the Company recorded reserves for unrecognized tax benefits
of $1.9 billion. The Company establishes reserves if it believes that certain
positions taken in its tax returns are subject to challenge and the Company
likely will not succeed, even though the Company believes the tax return
position is supportable under the tax law. The Company adjusts these reserves,
as well as the related interest, in light of new information, such as the
progress of a tax examination, new tax law, relevant court rulings or tax
authority settlements.

We identified the evaluation of certain of the Company's unrecognized tax
benefits as a critical audit matter because the application of tax law and
interpretation of a tax authority's settlement history is complex and involves
subjective judgment. Such judgments impact both the timing and amount of

  

112

* * *

Table of Contents

the reserves that are recognized, including judgments about re-measuring
liabilities for positions taken in prior years' tax returns in light of new
information.

The following are the primary procedures we performed to address this critical
audit matter. We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness
of certain internal controls related to the unrecognized tax benefits process,
including controls to (1) identify uncertain income tax positions, (2)
evaluate the tax law and tax authority's settlement history used to estimate
the unrecognized tax benefits, and (3) monitor for new information that may
give rise to changes to the existing unrecognized tax benefits, such as
progress of a tax examination, new tax law or tax authority settlements. We
involved tax and valuation professionals with specialized skills and
knowledge, who assisted in assessing the unrecognized tax benefits by (1)
evaluating the Company's tax structure and transactions, including transfer
pricing arrangements, and (2) assessing the Company's interpretation of
existing tax law as well as new and amended tax laws, tax positions taken,
associated external counsel opinions, information from tax examinations,
relevant court rulings and tax authority settlements.

/s/ KPMG LLP

We have served as the Company's auditor since 1990.

New York, New York

February 8, 2023

  

  

113

* * *

Table of Contents

GLOSSARY

Acquisitions and divestitures: mergers and acquisitions activity, as well as
divestitures and other structural changes, including changes in ownership or
control in consolidated subsidiaries and nonconsolidated equity investees.

Bottler Case Sales (BCS): measure of physical beverage volume shipped to
retailers and independent distributors from both PepsiCo and our independent
bottlers.

Bottler funding: financial incentives we give to our independent bottlers to
assist in the distribution and promotion of our beverage products.

Concentrate Shipments and Equivalents (CSE): measure of our physical beverage
volume shipments to independent bottlers.

Constant currency: financial results assuming constant foreign currency
exchange rates used for translation based on the rates in effect for the
comparable prior-year period. In order to compute our constant currency
results, we multiply or divide, as appropriate, our current year U.S. dollar
results by the current year average foreign exchange rates and then multiply
or divide, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior year average foreign
exchange rates.

Consumers: people who eat and drink our products.

CSD: carbonated soft drinks.

Customers: authorized independent bottlers, distributors and retailers.

Direct-Store-Delivery (DSD): delivery system used by us and our independent
bottlers to deliver beverages and convenient foods directly to retail stores
where our products are merchandised.

Effective net pricing: reflects the year-over-year impact of discrete pricing
actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying
products in different package sizes and in different countries.

Free cash flow: net cash provided by/used for operating activities less
capital spending, plus sales of property, plant and equipment.

Independent bottlers: customers to whom we have granted exclusive contracts to
sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a
specific geographical area.

Mark-to-market net impact: change in market value for commodity derivative
contracts that we purchase to mitigate the volatility in costs of energy and
raw materials that we consume. The market value is determined based on prices
on national exchanges and recently reported transactions in the marketplace.

Organic: a measure that adjusts for the impacts of foreign exchange
translation, acquisitions and divestitures, and where applicable, the impact
of the 53rd reporting week. In excluding the impact of foreign exchange
translation, we assume constant foreign exchange rates used for translation
based on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. See the
definition of "Constant currency" for further information.

Total marketplace spending: includes sales incentives and discounts offered
through various programs to our customers, consumers or independent bottlers,
as well as advertising and other marketing activities.

Transaction gains and losses: the impact on our consolidated financial
statements of exchange rate changes arising from specific transactions.

  

114

* * *

Table of Contents

Translation adjustment: the impact of converting our foreign affiliates'
financial statements into U.S. dollars for the purpose of consolidating our
financial statements.

  

  

115

* * *

Table of Contents

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Included in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Our Business Risks."

Item 8\. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

See "Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules."

Item 9\. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

Not applicable.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.

(a) Disclosure Controls and Procedures. As of the end of the period covered by
this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of
our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of the end of the period covered
by this report our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure
that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit
under the Exchange Act is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules
and forms, and (2) accumulated and communicated to our management, including
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to
allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

(b) Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule
13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
our internal control over financial reporting based upon criteria established
in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that evaluation,
our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting
was effective as of December 31, 2022.

Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm. KPMG LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated
financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, as part
of their audit, has issued their report, included herein, on the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting.

(c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting. During our fourth
quarter of 2022, we continued migrating certain of our financial processing
systems to an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solution. These systems
implementations are part of our ongoing global business transformation
initiative, and we plan to continue implementing such systems throughout other
parts of our businesses in phases over the next several years. In connection
with these ERP implementations, we are updating and will continue to update
our internal control over financial reporting, as necessary, to accommodate
modifications to our business processes and accounting procedures. During
2022, we continued implementing these systems, resulting in changes that
materially affected our internal control over financial reporting. These
system implementations did not have an adverse effect, nor do we expect will
have an adverse effect, on our internal control over financial reporting. In
addition, in connection with our 2019 multi-year productivity plan, we
continue to migrate to shared business models across our operations to further
simplify, harmonize and automate processes. In connection with our 2019 multi-
year

  

116

* * *

Table of Contents

productivity plan and resulting business process changes, we continue to
enhance the design and documentation of our internal control over financial
reporting processes, to maintain effective controls over our financial
reporting. These business process changes have not materially affected, and we
do not expect them to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.

Except with respect to the continued implementation of ERP systems, there have
been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during our
fourth quarter of 2022 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely
to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. We will
continue to assess the impact on our internal control over financial reporting
as we continue to implement our ERP solution and our 2019 multi-year
productivity plan.

Item 9B. Other Information.

Not applicable.

Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections.

Not applicable.

PART III

Item 10\. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

Information about our directors and persons nominated to become directors is
contained under the caption "Election of Directors" in our Proxy Statement for
our 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC within 120
days of the year ended December 31, 2022 (the 2023 Proxy Statement) and is
incorporated herein by reference. Information about our executive officers is
reported under the caption "Information About Executive Officers" in Part I of
this report.

Information on beneficial ownership reporting compliance will be contained
under the caption "Ownership of PepsiCo Common Stock - Delinquent Section
16(a) Reports," if applicable, in our 2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.

We have a written code of conduct that applies to all of our employees,
including our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and Controller, and to our Board of Directors. Our
Global Code of Conduct is distributed to all employees and is available on our
website at http://www.pepsico.com. A copy of our Global Code of Conduct may be
obtained free of charge by writing to Investor Relations, PepsiCo, Inc., 700
Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577. Any amendment to our Global Code
of Conduct and any waiver applicable to our executive officers or senior
financial officers will be posted on our website within the time period
required by the SEC and applicable rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC.

Information about the procedures by which security holders may recommend
nominees to our Board of Directors can be found in our 2023 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Board Composition and Refreshment - Shareholder
Recommendations and Nominations of Director Candidates" and is incorporated
herein by reference.

Information concerning the composition of the Audit Committee and our Audit
Committee financial experts is contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the
caption "Corporate Governance at PepsiCo - Committees of the Board of
Directors - Audit Committee" and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11\. Executive Compensation.

Information about director and executive officer compensation, Compensation
Committee interlocks and the Compensation Committee Report is contained in our
2023 Proxy Statement under the captions "2022

  

117

* * *

Table of Contents

Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," "Corporate Governance at
PepsiCo - Committees of the Board of Directors - Compensation Committee -
Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Executive
Compensation - Compensation Committee Report" and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 12\. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters.

Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity
compensation plans can be found under the caption "Executive Compensation -
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans" in our
2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Information on the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock beneficially owned
by each director and named executive officer, by all directors and executive
officers as a group and on each beneficial owner of more than 5% of PepsiCo
Common Stock is contained under the caption "Ownership of PepsiCo Common
Stock" in our 2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13\. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence.

Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions and
director independence is contained under the captions "Corporate Governance at
PepsiCo - Related Person Transactions" and "Corporate Governance at PepsiCo -
Director Independence" in our 2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 14\. Principal Accounting Fees and Services.

Information on our Audit Committee's pre-approval policy and procedures for
audit and other services and information on our principal accountant fees and
services is contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption
"Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
- Audit and Other Fees" and is incorporated herein by reference.

  

118

* * *

Table of Contents

PART IV

Item 15\. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(a)1.| Financial Statements  
| The following consolidated financial statements of PepsiCo, Inc. and its
affiliates are included herein by reference to the pages indicated on the
index appearing in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations":  
|

Consolidated Statement of Income - Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022,
December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020  
  
|

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income - Fiscal years ended December
31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020  
  
|

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows - Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022,
December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020  
  
|

Consolidated Balance Sheet - December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021  
  
|

Consolidated Statement of Equity - Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022,
December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020  
  
| Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and  
|

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 185).  
  
(a)2.| Financial Statement Schedules  
| These schedules are omitted because they are not required or because the
information is set forth in the financial statements or the notes thereto.  
(a)3.| Exhibits  
| See Index to Exhibits.  
  
Item 16\. Form 10-K Summary.

None.

  

119

* * *

Table of Contents

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

ITEM 15(a)(3)

The following is a list of the exhibits filed as part of this Form 10-K. The
documents incorporated by reference can be viewed on the SEC's website at
http://www.sec.gov.

EXHIBIT

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
3.1|

[Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of PepsiCo, Inc., effective as
of May 1, 2019, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on May 3,
2019.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747619000046/exhibit31articlesofinc.htm)

|  
3.2|

[By-laws of PepsiCo, Inc., as amended and restated, effective as of April 15,
2020, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to PepsiCo,
Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on April 16,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747620000025/pepsicoincby-
lawsamend.htm)

|  
4.1| PepsiCo, Inc. agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
Commission, upon request, a copy of any instrument, not otherwise filed
herewith, defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of PepsiCo, Inc.
and its consolidated subsidiaries and for any of its unconsolidated
subsidiaries for which financial statements are required to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.|  
4.2|

[Indenture dated May 21, 2007 between PepsiCo, Inc. and The Bank of New York
Mellon (formerly known as The Bank of New York), as trustee, which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s
Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration No. 333-154314) filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 15,
2008.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000095012308012878/y71809exv4w3.htm)

|  
4.3|

[Form of 5.50% Senior Note due 2040, which is incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on January 13,
2010.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000095012310002313/y81499exv4w4.htm)

|  
4.4|

[Form of 4.875% Senior Note due 2040, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 25,
2010.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000095012310095596/y87267exv4w3.htm)

|  
4.5|

[Form of 3.600% Senior Note due 2024, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28,
2014.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465914014923/a14-6261_3ex4d2.htm)

|  
4.6|

[Form of 2.625% Senior Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 28,
2014.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465914031301/a14-11218_1ex4d2.htm)

|  
4.7|

[Form of 4.250% Senior Note due 2044, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 of PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 22,
2014.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465914073055/a14-21385_4ex4d1.htm)

|  
4.8|

[Form of 2.750% Senior Note due 2025, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 30,
2015.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465915032611/a15-10046_1ex4d4.htm)

|  
4.9|

[Form of 3.500% Senior Note due 2025, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 17,
2015.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465915051710/a15-15727_1ex4d4.htm)

|  
4.10|

[Form of 4.600% Senior Note due 2045, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 17,
2015.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465915051710/a15-15727_1ex4d5.htm)

|  
4.11|

[Form of 4.450% Senior Note due 2046, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 14,
2015.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465915070645/a15-20899_1ex4d4.htm)

|  
4.12|

[Form of 2.850% Senior Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 24,
2016.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465916099579/a16-4973_1ex4d3.htm)

|  
  
  

120

* * *

Table of Contents

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
4.13|

[Form of 4.450% Senior Note due 2046, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 24,
2016.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465916099579/a16-4973_1ex4d4.htm)

|  
4.14|

[Form of 0.875% Senior Note due 2028, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 18,
2016.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465916133022/a16-11909_5ex4d1.htm)

|  
4.15|

[Form of 2.375% Senior Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 6,
2016.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465916149114/a16-18482_5ex4d5.htm)

|  
4.16|

[Form of 3.450% Senior Note due 2046, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.6 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 6,
2016.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465916149114/a16-18482_5ex4d6.htm)

|  
4.17|

[Form of 4.000% Senior Note due 2047, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 2,
2017.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465917028885/a17-9812_5ex4d5.htm)

|  
4.18|

[Form of 2.150% Senior Note due 2024, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 4,
2017.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465917029883/a17-9812_7ex4d1.htm)

|  
4.19|

[Form of 3.000% Senior Note due 2027, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 10,
2017.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465917061593/a17-21487_4ex4d3.htm)

|  
4.20|

[Board of Directors Resolutions Authorizing PepsiCo, Inc.'s Officers to
Establish the Terms of the 5.50% Senior Notes due 2040 and 4.875% Senior Notes
due 2040, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
PepsiCo, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 24 weeks ended June 12,
2010.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000119312510161855/dex41.htm)

|  
4.21|

[Board of Directors Resolutions Authorizing PepsiCo, Inc.'s Officers to
Establish the Terms of the 4.000% Senior Notes due 2042 and the 3.600% Senior
Notes due 2042, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to
PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on May 6,
2011.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000095012311046737/y91154exv4w3.htm)

|  
4.22|

[Form of 4.000% Senior Note due 2042, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 2,
2012.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000119312512094508/d310880dex43.htm)

|  
4.23|

[Form of 3.600% Senior Note due 2042, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13,
2012.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000119312512352477/d385664dex43.htm)

|  
4.24|

[Form of 2.750% Senior Note due 2023, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2013.
](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000119312513084656/d493310dex43.htm)

|  
4.25|

[Form of 7.00% Senior Note due 2029, Series A, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 8,
2018.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465918067008/a18-39673_1ex4d3.htm)

|  
4.26|

[Form of 5.50% Senior Note due 2035, Series A, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 8,
2018.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465918067008/a18-39673_1ex4d4.htm)

|  
4.27|

[Form of 7.29% Senior Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Registration No. 333-228466) filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on November 19,
2018.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000104746918007308/a2237103zex-4_3.htm)

|  
4.28|

[Form of 7.44% Senior Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Registration No. 333-228466) filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on November 19,
2018.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000104746918007308/a2237103zex-4_4.htm)

|  
4.29|

[Form of 7.00% Senior Note due 2029, which is incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Registration No. 333-228466) filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on November 19,
2018.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000104746918007308/a2237103zex-4_5.htm)

|  
  
  

121

* * *

Table of Contents

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
4.30|

[Form of 5.50% Senior Note due 2035, which is incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 4.6 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Registration No. 333-228466) filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on November 19,
2018.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000104746918007308/a2237103zex-4_6.htm)

|  
4.31|

[Form of 0.750% Senior Note due 2027, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18,
2019.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465919015601/a19-5533_3ex4d1.htm)

|  
4.32|

[Form of 1.125% Senior Note due 2031, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18,
2019.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465919015601/a19-5533_3ex4d2.htm)

|  
4.33|

[Form of 2.625% Senior Note due 2029, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 29,
2019.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000141057819000566/tv525941_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.34|

[Form of 3.375% Senior Note due 2049, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 29,
2019.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000141057819000566/tv525941_ex4-2.htm)

|  
4.35|

[Form of 2.875% Senior Note due 2049, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 9,
2019.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000141057819001590/tv530785_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.36|

[Form of 0.875% Senior Note due 2039, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 16,
2019.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000141057819001659/tv530842_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.37|

[Form of 2.250% Senior Note due 2025, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 19,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920035907/tm2013070d1_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.38|

[Form of 2.625% Senior Note due 2027, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 19,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920035907/tm2013070d1_ex4-2.htm)

|  
4.39|

[Form of 2.750% Senior Note due 2030, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 19,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920035907/tm2013070d1_ex4-3.htm)

|  
4.40|

[Form of 3.500% Senior Note due 2040, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 19,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920035907/tm2013070d1_ex4-4.htm)

|  
4.41|

[Form of 3.625% Senior Note due 2050, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 19,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920035907/tm2013070d1_ex4-5.htm)

|  
4.42|

[Form of 3.875% Senior Note due 2060, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.6 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 19,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920035907/tm2013070d1_ex4-6.htm)

|  
4.43|

[Form of 0.750% Senior Note due 2023, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 1,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920055540/tm2013806d2_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.44|

[Form of 1.625% Senior Note due 2030, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 1,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920055540/tm2013806d2_ex4-2.htm)

|  
4.45|

[Form of 0.250% Senior Note due 2024, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920057476/tm2015480d3_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.46|

[Form of 0.500% Senior Note due 2028, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920057476/tm2015480d3_ex4-2.htm)

|  
  
  

122

* * *

Table of Contents

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
4.47|

[Form of 0.400% Senior Note due 2023, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 7,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920113094/tm2031181d3_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.48|

[Form of 1.400% Senior Note due 2031, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 7,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920113094/tm2031181d3_ex4-2.htm)

|  
4.49|

[Form of 0.400% Senior Note due 2032, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 9,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920113930/tm2031154d3_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.50|

[Form of 1.050% Senior Note due 2050, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 9,
2020.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465920113930/tm2031154d3_ex4-2.htm)

|  
4.51|

[Form of 0.750% Senior Note due 2033, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 14,
2021.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465921126260/tm2126857d9_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.52|

[Form of 1.950% Senior Note due 2031, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 21,
2021.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465921128479/tm2126857d6_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.53|

[Form of 2.625% Senior Note due 2041, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 21,
2021.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465921128479/tm2126857d6_ex4-2.htm)

|  
4.54|

[Form of 2.750% Senior Note due 2051, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 21,
2021.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465921128479/tm2126857d6_ex4-3.htm)

|  
4.55|

[Form of 3.600% Senior Note due 2028, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 18,
2022.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465922080528/tm2217577d5_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.56|

[Form of 4.200% Senior Note due 2052, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 18,
2022.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465922080528/tm2217577d5_ex4-2.htm)

|  
4.57|

[Form of 3.900% Senior Note due 2032, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 18,
2022.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465922080534/tm2217639d6_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.58|

[Form of 3.200% Senior Note due 2029, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 22,
2022.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465922082034/tm2217640d5_ex4-1.htm)

|  
4.59|

[Form of 3.550% Senior Note due 2034, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 22,
2022.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465922082034/tm2217640d5_ex4-2.htm)

|  
  
  

123

* * *

Table of Contents

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
4.60|

[Board of Directors Resolutions Authorizing PepsiCo, Inc.'s Officers to
Establish the Terms of the 2.750% Senior Notes due 2023, the 3.600% Senior
Notes due 2024, the 2.625% Senior Notes due 2026, the 4.250% Senior Notes due
2044, the 2.750% Senior Notes due 2025, the 3.500% Senior Notes due 2025, the
4.600% Senior Notes due 2045, the 4.450% Senior Notes due 2046, the 2.850%
Senior Notes due 2026, the 0.875% Senior Notes due 2028, the 2.375% Senior
Notes due 2026, the 3.450% Senior Notes due 2046, the 4.000% Senior Notes due
2047, the 2.150% Senior Notes due 2024, the 3.000% Senior Notes due 2027, the
7.00% Senior Notes due 2029, Series A, the 5.50% Senior Notes due 2035, Series
A, the 7.29% Senior Notes due 2026, the 7.44% Senior Notes due 2026, the 7.00%
Senior Notes due 2029, the 5.50% Senior Notes due 2035, the 0.750% Senior
Notes due 2027, the 1.125% Senior Notes due 2031, the 2.625% Senior Notes due
2029, the 3.375% Senior Notes due 2049, the 2.875% Senior Notes due 2049, the
0.875% Senior Notes due 2039, the 2.250% Senior Notes due 2025, the 2.625%
Senior Notes due 2027, the 2.750% Senior Notes due 2030, the 3.500% Senior
Notes due 2040, the 3.625% Senior Notes due 2050, the 3.875% Senior Notes due
2060, the 0.750% Senior Notes due 2023, the 1.625% Senior Notes due 2030, the
0.250% Senior Notes due 2024, the 0.500% Senior Notes due 2028, the 0.400%
Senior Notes due 2023, the 1.400% Senior Notes due 2031, the 0.400% Senior
Notes due 2032, and the 1.050% Senior Notes due 2050, the 0.750% Senior Notes
due 2033, the 1.950% Senior Notes due 2031, the 2.625% Senior Notes due 2041,
the 2.750% Senior Notes due 2051, the 3.600% Senior Notes due 2028, the 4.200%
Senior Notes due 2052, the 3.900% Senior Notes due 2032, the 3.200% Senior
Notes due 2029 and the 3.550% Senior Notes due 2034, which are incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28,
2013.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000119312513084656/d493310dex44.htm)

|  
4.61|

[Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 24, 2018, between Pepsi-
Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc. and The Bank New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as trustee, to the Indenture dated as of January 15, 1993
between Whitman Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as
trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo,
Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on October 25,
2018.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465918063746/a18-37151_1ex4d2.htm)

|  
4.62|

[Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 26, 2010, among Pepsi-
Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc., PepsiAmericas, Inc. and The Bank New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, to the Indenture dated as of
January 15, 1993 between Whitman Corporation and The First National Bank of
Chicago, as trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2
to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on March 1,
2010.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000095010310000536/dp16638_ex0402.htm)

|  
4.63|

[First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 20, 1999, between Whitman
Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee, to the
Indenture dated as of January 15, 1993, between Whitman Corporation and The
First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee, each of which is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to
PepsiAmericas, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No.
333-64292) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 29,
2005.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1084230/000110465905063037/a05-22295_1ex4d3.htm)

|  
4.64|

[Form of PepsiAmericas, Inc. 7.29% Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended March 20,
2010.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000119312510090778/dex47.htm)

|  
4.65|

[Description of Securities.](pepsico202210-kexhibit465.htm)

|  
10.1|

[Form of PepsiCo, Inc. Director Indemnification Agreement, which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25,
2004.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000119312505037811/dex1020.htm)

|  
  
  

124

* * *

Table of Contents

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
10.2|

[Severance Plan for Executive Employees of PepsiCo, Inc. and Affiliates, which
is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 6,
2008.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000119312508211024/dex105.htm)

|  
10.3|

[Form of Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the fiscal quarter ended March 21,
2009.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000119312509084604/dex10.htm)

|  
10.4|

[Specified Employee Amendments to Arrangements Subject to Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code, adopted February 18, 2010 and March 29, 2010, which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 20,
2010.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000119312510090778/dex1013.htm)

|  
10.5|

[PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated March
13, 2014, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
PepsiCo, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on March 14,
2014.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465914019761/a14-7982_1ex10d1.htm)

|  
10.6|

[The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Benefit Program, as amended
and restated effective as of January 1, 2023.*](pepsico202210-kexhibit106.htm)

|  
10.7|

[The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Contribution Program, as
amended and restated effective as of January 1,
2022.*](pepsico202210-kexhibit107.htm)

|  
10.8|

[PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 4, 2016),
which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit B to PepsiCo's Proxy
Statement for its 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18,
2016.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000120677416005007/pepsico_def14a.htm#d297606a058)

|  
10.9|

[PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan (Plan Document for the Pre-409A Program),
as amended and restated effective as of January 1,
2022](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000010/pepsico202110-kexhibit109.htm)[,
which is
](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000010/pepsico202110-kexhibit109.htm)[inco](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000010/pepsico202110-kexhibit109.htm)[rporated
](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000010/pepsico202110-kexhibit109.htm)[herein
by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to
PepsiCo](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000010/pepsico202110-kexhibit109.htm)[,
Inc.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000010/pepsico202110-kexhibit109.htm)['](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000010/pepsico202110-kexhibit109.htm)[s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000010/pepsico202110-kexhibit109.htm)[fiscal
year ended
Decem](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000010/pepsico202110-kexhibit109.htm)[ber
25,
2021.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000010/pepsico202110-kexhibit109.htm)[*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000010/pepsico202110-kexhibit109.htm)

|  
10.10|

[PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan (Plan Document for the 409A Program), as
amended and restated effective as of January 1,
2022.*](pepsico202210-kexhibit1010.htm)

|  
10.11|

[PepsiCo Automatic Retirement Contribution Equalization Plan, as amended and
restated effective as of January 1, 2019, which is incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.26 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 29,
2018.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747619000017/pepsico201810-kexhibit1026.htm)

|  
10.12|

[PepsiCo Director Deferral Program (Plan Document for the 409A Program),
amended and restated effective as of January 1,
2020](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747620000015/pepsico201910-kexhibit1025.htm)[,
which is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28,
2019.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747620000015/pepsico201910-kexhibit1025.htm)

|  
10.13|

[Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.49 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2016.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747617000010/pepsico201610-kexhibit1049.htm)

|  
10.14|

[PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program (Plan Document for the 409A
Program), amended and restated effective as of January 1,
20](pepsico202210-kexhibit1014.htm)[22](pepsico202210-kexhibit1014.htm)[.*](pepsico202210-kexhibit1014.htm)

|  
10.15|

[Amendment to Certain PepsiCo Award Agreements, which is incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit 10.45 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.
*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747618000012/pepsico201710-kexhibit1045.htm)

|  
10.16|

[PepsiCo, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated December 20,
2017), which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.47 to PepsiCo,
Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30,
2017.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747618000012/pepsico201710-kexhibit1047.htm)

|  
10.17|

[Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 24,
2018.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747618000032/exhibit101-3242018.htm)

|  
10.18|

[Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 24,
2018.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747618000032/exhibit102-3242018.htm)

|  
  
  

125

* * *

Table of Contents

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
10.19|

[PepsiCo, Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (as amended and restated
effective February 4, 2021), which is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.20 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 26, 2020.*
](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747621000007/pepsico2020form10-kex1020.htm)

|  
10.20|

[Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 23,
2019.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747619000038/exhibit101-2019.htm)

|  
10.21|

[PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program (Plan Document for the Pre-409A
Program), amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2019,
](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747620000015/pepsico201910-kexhibit1035.htm)[which
is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28,
2019](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747620000015/pepsico201910-kexhibit1035.htm)[.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747620000015/pepsico201910-kexhibit1035.htm)

|  
10.22|

[Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 21,
2020.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747620000041/exhibit101-q12020.htm)

|  
10.23|

[Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 20,
2021.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747621000018/pepsicoq12021form10-qex101.htm)

|  
10.24|

[Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Agreement, which is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarterly period ended March 19,
2022.*](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747622000020/exhibit101-q12022.htm)

|  
21|

[Subsidiaries of PepsiCo, Inc.](pepsico202210-kexhibit21.htm)

|  
23|

[Consent of KPMG LLP.](pepsico202210-kexhibit23.htm)

|  
24|

[Power of Attorney.](pepsico202210-kexhibit24.htm)

|  
31|

[Certification of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.](pepsico202210-kexhibit31.htm)

|  
32|

[Certification of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.](pepsico202210-kexhibit32.htm)

|  
99.1|

[364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2022, among PepsiCo, as
borrower, the lenders named therein, and Citibank, N.A., as administrative
agent, which is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on May 27,
2022.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465922065944/tm2216910d1_ex99-1.htm)

|  
99.2|

[Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2022, among PepsiCo, as
borrower, the lenders named therein, and Citibank, N.A., as administrative
agent, which is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.'s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on May 27,
2022.](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000110465922065944/tm2216910d1_ex99-2.htm)

|  
101|

The following materials from PepsiCo, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 formatted in iXBRL (Inline eXtensible
Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (ii)
the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iii) the Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows, (iv) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (v) the
Consolidated Statements of Equity and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

|  
104|

The cover page from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2022, formatted in Inline XBRL and contained in
Exhibit 101.

|  
  
  

*Management contracts and compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this report.

  

  

126

* * *

Table of Contents

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, PepsiCo has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: February 8, 2023

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  
| PepsiCo, Inc.  
| |  
| By:| /s/ Ramon L. Laguarta  
|  | Ramon L. Laguarta  
|  | Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer  
  
  

127

* * *

Table of Contents

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of PepsiCo and
in the capacities and on the date indicated.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| |  
SIGNATURE| TITLE| DATE  
/s/ Ramon L. Laguarta| Chairman of the Board of Directors| February 8, 2023  
Ramon L. Laguarta| and Chief Executive Officer|  
/s/ Hugh F. Johnston| Vice Chairman, Executive Vice President| February 8,
2023  
Hugh F. Johnston| and Chief Financial Officer|  
/s/ Marie T. Gallagher| Senior Vice President and Controller| February 8, 2023  
Marie T. Gallagher| (Principal Accounting Officer)|  
/s/ Segun Agbaje| Director| February 8, 2023  
Segun Agbaje| |  
/s/ Shona L. Brown| Director| February 8, 2023  
Shona L. Brown| |  
/s/ Cesar Conde| Director| February 8, 2023  
Cesar Conde| |  
/s/ Ian M. Cook| Director| February 8, 2023  
Ian M. Cook| |  
/s/ Edith W. Cooper| Director| February 8, 2023  
Edith W. Cooper| |  
/s/ Dina Dublon| Director| February 8, 2023  
Dina Dublon| |  
/s/ Michelle Gass| Director| February 8, 2023  
Michelle Gass| |  
/s/ Dave J. Lewis| Director| February 8, 2023  
Dave J. Lewis| |  
/s/ David C. Page| Director| February 8, 2023  
David C. Page| |  
/s/ Robert C. Pohlad| Director| February 8, 2023  
Robert C. Pohlad| |  
/s/ Daniel Vasella| Director| February 8, 2023  
Daniel Vasella| |  
/s/ Darren Walker| Director| February 8, 2023  
Darren Walker| |  
/s/ Alberto Weisser| Director| February 8, 2023  
Alberto Weisser| |  
  
  

128

