false2022FY0001018724http://fasb.org/us-

Table of Contents

  

| |  
---|---|---  
  
UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

____________________________________

FORM 10-K

____________________________________

(Mark One)

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
☒| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934  
  
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022

or

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
☐| TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
  
For the transition period from to .

Commission File No. 000-22513

____________________________________

AMAZON.COM, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Delaware|  | 91-1646860  
(State or other jurisdiction of  
incorporation or organization)|  | (I.R.S. Employer  
Identification No.)  
  
410 Terry Avenue North

Seattle, Washington 98109-5210

(206) 266-1000

(Address and telephone number, including area code, of registrant's principal
executive offices)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Title of Each Class| Trading Symbol(s)| Name of Each Exchange on Which
Registered  
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share| AMZN| Nasdaq Global Select Market  
  
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

____________________________________

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer,"
"accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth
company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Large accelerated filer| | ☒| Accelerated filer| | ☐  
Non-accelerated filer| | ☐| Smaller reporting company| | ☐  
| | | Emerging growth company| | ☐  
  
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has
elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new
or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a)
of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and
attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting
firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ No ☒

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of June 30, 2022

| $| 944,744,113,598 |  
  
Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of January 25, 2023

| 10,247,259,757 |  
  
____________________________________

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The information required by Part III of this Report, to the extent not set
forth herein, is incorporated herein by reference from the registrant's
definitive proxy statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held in 2023, which definitive proxy statement shall be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year to which this Report relates.

| |  
---|---|---  
  
  

* * *

Table of Contents

  

AMAZON.COM, INC.

FORM 10-K

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022

INDEX

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | Page  
PART I|  
Item 1.|

Business

|

3  
  
Item 1A.|

Risk Factors

|

6  
  
Item 1B.|

Unresolved Staff Comments

|

16  
  
Item 2.|

Properties

|

17  
  
Item 3.|

Legal Proceedings

|

17  
  
Item 4.|

Mine Safety Disclosures

|

17  
  
| |  
PART II|  
Item 5.|

Market for the Registrant's Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters, and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

|

18  
  
Item 6.|

Reserved

|

18  
  
Item 7.|

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

|

19  
  
Item 7A.|

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

|

31  
  
Item 8.|

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

|

33  
  
Item 9.|

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

|

69  
  
Item 9A.|

Controls and Procedures

|

69  
  
Item 9B.|

Other Information

|

71  
  
Item 9C.|

Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

|

71  
  
|  
PART III|  
Item 10.|

Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance

|

71  
  
Item 11.|

Executive Compensation

|

71  
  
Item 12.|

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Shareholder Matters

|

71  
  
Item 13.|

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

|

71  
  
Item 14.|

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

|

71  
  
|  
PART IV|  
Item 15.|

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

|

72  
  
Item 16.|

Form 10-K Summary

|

74  
  
Signatures

|

75  
  
2

* * *

Table of Contents

  

AMAZON.COM, INC.

PART I

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 1.| Business  
  
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by
reference contain forward-looking statements based on expectations, estimates,
and projections as of the date of this filing. Actual results and outcomes may
differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. See Item
1A of Part I -- "Risk Factors." As used herein, "Amazon.com," "we," "our," and
similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the
context indicates otherwise.

General

We seek to be Earth's most customer-centric company. We are guided by four
principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for
invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. In
each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of
consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, content creators, advertisers,
and employees.

We have organized our operations into three segments: North America,
International, and Amazon Web Services ("AWS"). These segments reflect the way
the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations.
Information on our net sales is contained in Item 8 of Part II, "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 10 -- Segment Information."

Consumers

We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on
selection, price, and convenience. We design our stores to enable hundreds of
millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across
dozens of product categories. Customers access our offerings through our
websites, mobile apps, Alexa, devices, streaming, and physically visiting our
stores. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle,
Fire tablet, Fire TV, Echo, Ring, Blink, and eero, and we develop and produce
media content. We seek to offer our customers low prices, fast and free
delivery, easy-to-use functionality, and timely customer service. In addition,
we offer subscription services such as Amazon Prime, a membership program that
includes fast, free shipping on millions of items, access to award-winning
movies and series, and other benefits.

We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North
America and International fulfillment networks that we operate; co-sourced and
outsourced arrangements in certain countries; digital delivery; and through
our physical stores. We operate customer service centers globally, which are
supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See Item 2 of Part I, "Properties."

Sellers

We offer programs that enable sellers to grow their businesses, sell their
products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller
of record in these transactions. We earn fixed fees, a percentage of sales,
per-unit activity fees, interest, or some combination thereof, for our seller
programs.

Developers and Enterprises

We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes, including start-ups,
government agencies, and academic institutions, through AWS, which offers a
broad set of on-demand technology services, including compute, storage,
database, analytics, and machine learning, and other services.

Content Creators

We offer programs that allow authors, independent publishers, musicians,
filmmakers, Twitch streamers, skill and app developers, and others to publish
and sell content.

Advertisers

We provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and
others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video
advertising.

3

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Competition

Our businesses encompass a large variety of product types, service offerings,
and delivery channels. The worldwide marketplace in which we compete is
evolving rapidly and intensely competitive, and we face a broad array of
competitors from many different industry sectors around the world. Our current
and potential competitors include: (1) physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel
retailers, publishers, vendors, distributors, manufacturers, and producers of
the products we offer and sell to consumers and businesses; (2) publishers,
producers, and distributors of physical, digital, and interactive media of all
types and all distribution channels; (3) web search engines, comparison
shopping websites, social networks, web portals, and other online and app-
based means of discovering, using, or acquiring goods and services, either
directly or in collaboration with other retailers; (4) companies that provide
e-commerce services, including website development and hosting, omnichannel
sales, inventory and supply chain management, advertising, fulfillment,
customer service, and payment processing; (5) companies that provide
fulfillment and logistics services for themselves or for third parties,
whether online or offline; (6) companies that provide information technology
services or products, including on-premises or cloud-based infrastructure and
other services; (7) companies that design, manufacture, market, or sell
consumer electronics, telecommunication, and electronic devices; (8) companies
that sell grocery products online and in physical stores; and (9) companies
that provide advertising services, whether in digital or other formats. We
believe that the principal competitive factors in our retail businesses
include selection, price, and convenience, including fast and reliable
fulfillment. Additional competitive factors for our seller and enterprise
services include the quality, speed, and reliability of our services and
tools, as well as customers' ability and willingness to change business
practices. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater
resources, longer histories, more customers, greater brand recognition, and
greater control over inputs critical to our various businesses. They may
secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing, pursue
restrictive distribution agreements that restrict our access to supply, direct
consumers to their own offerings instead of ours, lock-in potential customers
with restrictive terms, and devote more resources to technology,
infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. The Internet facilitates
competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new,
smaller, or lesser-known businesses to compete against us. Each of our
businesses is also subject to rapid change and the development of new business
models and the entry of new and well-funded competitors. Other companies also
may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their
competitive positions.

Intellectual Property

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names,
trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual
property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and
patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others to protect our
proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a
number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks, and
copyrights. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent
applications covering certain of our proprietary technology.

Seasonality

Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in
higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December 31.

Human Capital

Our employees are critical to our mission of being Earth's most customer-
centric company. As of December 31, 2022, we employed approximately 1,541,000
full-time and part-time employees. Additionally, we use independent
contractors and temporary personnel to supplement our workforce. Competition
for qualified personnel is intense, particularly for software engineers,
computer scientists, and other technical staff, and constrained labor markets
have increased competition for personnel across other parts of our business.

As we strive to be Earth's best employer, we focus on investment and
innovation, inclusion and diversity, safety, and engagement to hire and
develop the best talent. We rely on numerous and evolving initiatives to
implement these objectives and invent mechanisms for talent development,
including competitive pay and benefits, flexible work arrangements, and skills
training and educational programs such as Amazon Career Choice (funded
education for hourly employees) and the Amazon Technical Academy (software
development engineer training). Over 100,000 Amazon employees around the world
have participated in Career Choice. We also continue to inspect and refine the
mechanisms we use to hire, develop, evaluate, and retain our employees to
promote equity for all candidates and employees. In addition, safety is
integral to everything we do at Amazon and we continue to invest in safety
improvements such as capital improvements, new safety technology, vehicle
safety controls, and engineering ergonomic solutions. Our safety team is
dedicated to using the science of safety to solve complex problems and
establish new industry best practices. We also provide mentorship and support
resources to our employees, and have deployed numerous programs that advance
employee engagement, communication, and feedback.

4

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Available Information

Our investor relations website is amazon.com/ir and we encourage investors to
use it as a way of easily finding information about us. We promptly make
available on this website, free of charge, the reports that we file or furnish
with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), corporate governance
information (including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics), and select
press releases.

Executive Officers and Directors

The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive
Officers and Directors as of January 25, 2023:

Information About Our Executive Officers

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Name| | Age| | Position  
Jeffrey P. Bezos| | 59| | Executive Chair  
Andrew R. Jassy| | 55| | President and Chief Executive Officer  
Douglas J. Herrington| | 56| | CEO Worldwide Amazon Stores  
Brian T. Olsavsky| | 59| | Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
Shelley L. Reynolds| | 58| | Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and
Principal Accounting Officer  
Adam N. Selipsky| | 56| | CEO Amazon Web Services  
David A. Zapolsky| | 59| | Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and
Secretary  
  
Jeffrey P. Bezos. Mr. Bezos founded Amazon.com in 1994 and has served as
Executive Chair since July 2021. He has served as Chair of the Board since
1994 and served as Chief Executive Officer from May 1996 until July 2021, and
as President from 1994 until June 1999 and again from October 2000 to July
2021.

Andrew R. Jassy. Mr. Jassy has served as President and Chief Executive Officer
since July 2021, CEO Amazon Web Services from April 2016 until July 2021, and
Senior Vice President, Amazon Web Services, from April 2006 until April 2016.

Douglas J. Herrington. Mr. Herrington has served as CEO Worldwide Amazon
Stores since July 2022, Senior Vice President, North America Consumer from
January 2015 to July 2022, and Senior Vice President, Consumables from May
2014 to December 2014.

Brian T. Olsavsky. Mr. Olsavsky has served as Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer since June 2015, Vice President, Finance for the Global
Consumer Business from December 2011 to June 2015, and numerous financial
leadership roles across Amazon with global responsibility since April 2002.

Shelley L. Reynolds. Ms. Reynolds has served as Vice President, Worldwide
Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer since April 2007.

Adam N. Selipsky. Mr. Selipsky has served as CEO Amazon Web Services since
July 2021, Senior Vice President, Amazon Web Services from May 2021 until July
2021, President and CEO of Tableau Software from September 2016 until May
2021, and Vice President, Marketing, Sales and Support of Amazon Web Services
from May 2005 to September 2016.

David A. Zapolsky. Mr. Zapolsky has served as Senior Vice President, General
Counsel, and Secretary since May 2014, Vice President, General Counsel, and
Secretary from September 2012 to May 2014, and as Vice President and Associate
General Counsel for Litigation and Regulatory matters from April 2002 until
September 2012.

5

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Board of Directors

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Name| | Age| | Position  
Jeffrey P. Bezos| | 59| | Executive Chair  
Andrew R. Jassy| | 55| | President and Chief Executive Officer  
Keith B. Alexander| | 71| | CEO, President, and Chair of IronNet, Inc.  
Edith W. Cooper| | 61| | Former Executive Vice President, Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc.  
Jamie S. Gorelick| | 72| | Partner, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP  
Daniel P. Huttenlocher| | 64| | Dean, MIT Schwarzman College of Computing  
Judith A. McGrath| | 70| | Former Chair and CEO, MTV Networks  
Indra K. Nooyi| | 67| | Former Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo, Inc.  
Jonathan J. Rubinstein| | 66| | Former co-CEO, Bridgewater Associates, LP  
Patricia Q. Stonesifer| | 66| | Former President and Chief Executive Officer,
Martha's Table  
Wendell P. Weeks| | 63| | Chief Executive Officer, Corning Incorporated  
  
| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 1A.| Risk Factors  
  
Please carefully consider the following discussion of significant factors,
events, and uncertainties that make an investment in our securities risky. The
events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in
circumstances we may or may not be able to accurately predict, recognize, or
control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, reputation,
prospects, financial condition, operating results (including components of our
financial results), cash flows, liquidity, and stock price. These risk factors
do not identify all risks that we face; our operations could also be affected
by factors, events, or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or
that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our
operations. In addition to the factors discussed in Item 7 of Part II,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations--Overview," and in the risk factors below, global economic and
geopolitical conditions and additional or unforeseen circumstances,
developments, or events may give rise to or amplify many of the risks
discussed below. Many of the risks discussed below also impact our customers,
including third-party sellers, which could indirectly have a material adverse
effect on us.

Business and Industry Risks

We Face Intense Competition

Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have
many competitors across geographies, including cross-border competition, and
in different industries, including physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel
retail, e-commerce services, web and infrastructure computing services,
electronic devices, digital content, advertising, grocery, and transportation
and logistics services. Some of our current and potential competitors have
greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and/or greater brand
recognition, particularly with our newly-launched products and services and in
our newer geographic regions. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt
more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to technology,
infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing.

Competition continues to intensify, including with the development of new
business models and the entry of new and well-funded competitors, and as our
competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established
companies in other market segments expand to become competitive with our
business. In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web
and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices
continue to increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive
entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or
lesser known businesses to compete against us. As a result of competition, our
product and service offerings may not be successful, we may fail to gain or
may lose business, and we may be required to increase our spending or lower
prices, any of which could materially reduce our sales and profits.

Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies, and Geographic
Regions Subjects Us to Additional Risks

We may have limited or no experience in our newer market segments, and our
customers may not adopt our product or service offerings. These offerings,
which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to
claims if customers of these offerings experience, or are otherwise impacted
by, service disruptions, delays, setbacks, or failures or quality issues. In
addition, profitability, if any, in our newer activities may not meet our
expectations, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to
recoup our investments in them, which investments are often significant.
Failure to realize the benefits of amounts we invest in new technologies,
products, or services could result in the value of those investments being
written down or written off. In addition, our sustainability initiatives may
be unsuccessful for a variety of

6

* * *

Table of Contents

  

reasons, including if we are unable to realize the expected benefits of new
technologies or if we do not successfully plan or execute new strategies,
which could harm our business or damage our reputation.

Our International Operations Expose Us to a Number of Risks

Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and
we plan to further expand internationally. In certain international market
segments, we have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit
from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to
establish, develop, and maintain international operations and stores, and
promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not become
profitable on a sustained basis.

In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international
sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including:

•local economic and political conditions;

•government regulation (such as regulation of our product and service
offerings and of competition); restrictive governmental actions (such as trade
protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and
tariffs); nationalization; and restrictions on foreign ownership;

•restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and
uncertainty regarding liability for products, services, and content, including
uncertainty as a result of less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws,
lack of legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices
regarding the physical and digital distribution of media products and
enforcement of intellectual property rights;

•business licensing or certification requirements, such as for imports,
exports, web services, and electronic devices;

•limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency
exchange restrictions;

•limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure;

•shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative
impact on cash flow;

•laws and regulations regarding privacy, data use, data protection, data
security, data localization, network security, consumer protection, payments,
advertising, and restrictions on pricing or discounts;

•lower levels of use of the Internet;

•lower levels of consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared
to the U.S.;

•lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment risk;

•difficulty in staffing, developing, and managing foreign operations as a
result of distance, language, and cultural differences;

•different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils
and labor unions;

•compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable
U.S. and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials and
other third parties;

•laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade,
foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and

•geopolitical events, including war and terrorism.

As international physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, cloud services,
and other services grow, competition will intensify, including through
adoption of evolving business models. Local companies may have a substantial
competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on,
the local customer, as well as their more established local brand names. The
inability to hire, train, retain, and manage sufficient required personnel may
limit our international growth.

The People's Republic of China ("PRC") and India regulate Amazon's and its
affiliates' businesses and operations in country through regulations and
license requirements that may restrict (i) foreign investment in and operation
of the Internet, IT infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other
sectors, (ii) Internet content, and (iii) the sale of media and other products
and services. For example, in order to meet local ownership, regulatory
licensing, and cybersecurity requirements, we provide certain technology
services in China through contractual relationships with third parties that
hold PRC licenses to provide services. In India, the government restricts the
ownership or control of Indian companies by foreign entities involved in
online multi-brand retail trading activities. For www.amazon.in, we provide
certain marketing tools and logistics services to third-party sellers to
enable them to sell online and deliver to customers, and we hold indirect
minority interests in entities that are third-party sellers on the
www.amazon.in marketplace. Although we believe these structures and activities
comply with existing laws, they involve unique risks, and the PRC and India
may from time to time consider and implement additional changes in their
regulatory, licensing, or other requirements that could impact these
structures and activities. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the
interpretation of PRC and Indian laws and regulations, and it is possible that
these governments will

7

* * *

Table of Contents

  

ultimately take a view contrary to ours. In addition, our Chinese and Indian
businesses and operations may be unable to continue to operate if we or our
affiliates are unable to access sufficient funding or, in China, enforce
contractual relationships we or our affiliates have in place. Violation of any
existing or future PRC, Indian, or other laws or regulations or changes in the
interpretations of those laws and regulations could result in our businesses
in those countries being subject to fines and other financial penalties,
having licenses revoked, or being forced to restructure our operations or shut
down entirely.

The Variability in Our Retail Business Places Increased Strain on Our
Operations

Demand for our products and services can fluctuate significantly for many
reasons, including as a result of seasonality, promotions, product launches,
or unforeseeable events, such as in response to global economic conditions
such as recessionary fears or rising inflation, natural or human-caused
disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather (including as a
result of climate change), or geopolitical events. For example, we expect a
disproportionate amount of our retail sales to occur during our fourth
quarter. Our failure to stock or restock popular products in sufficient
amounts such that we fail to meet customer demand could significantly affect
our revenue and our future growth. When we overstock products, we may be
required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs and incur
commitment costs, which could materially reduce profitability. We regularly
experience increases in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades,
split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely
delivery for the holiday season. If too many customers access our websites
within a short period of time due to increased demand, we may experience
system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from
efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we offer
or sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we
may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment network and customer service
centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies
and customer service co-sourcers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand.
Risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to fulfillment network
optimization and inventory are magnified during periods of high demand.

As a result of holiday sales, as of December 31 of each year, our cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest
level (other than as a result of cash flows provided by or used in investing
and financing activities) because consumers primarily use credit cards in our
stores and the related receivables settle quickly. Typically, there is also a
corresponding increase in accounts payable as of December 31 due to inventory
purchases and third-party seller sales. Our accounts payable balance generally
declines during the first three months of the year as vendors and sellers are
paid, resulting in a corresponding decline in our cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities balances.

We Are Impacted by Fraudulent or Unlawful Activities of Sellers

The law relating to the liability of online service providers is currently
unsettled. In addition, governmental agencies have in the past and could in
the future require changes in the way this business is conducted. Under our
seller programs, we maintain policies and processes designed to prevent
sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently or otherwise, when buyers never
receive the products they ordered or when the products received are materially
different from the sellers' descriptions, and to prevent sellers in our stores
or through other stores from selling unlawful, counterfeit, pirated, or stolen
goods, selling goods in an unlawful or unethical manner, violating the
proprietary rights of others, or otherwise violating our policies. When these
policies and processes are circumvented or fail to operate sufficiently, it
can harm our business or damage our reputation and we could face civil or
criminal liability for unlawful activities by our sellers. Under our A-to-z
Guarantee, we may reimburse customers for payments up to certain limits in
these situations, and as our third-party seller sales grow, the cost of this
program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results.

We Face Risks Related to Adequately Protecting Our Intellectual Property
Rights and Being Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third
Parties

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress,
trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property as
critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law,
trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with
our employees, customers, and others to protect our proprietary rights.
Effective intellectual property protection is not available in every country
in which our products and services are made available. We also may not be able
to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we
do business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect
our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent
third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon,
or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights.

We are not always able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized
use of our proprietary rights. Actions taken by third parties that license our
proprietary rights may materially diminish the value of our proprietary rights
or reputation. The protection of our intellectual property requires the
expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the
steps we take to protect our intellectual property do not always adequately
protect our rights or prevent third

8

* * *

Table of Contents

  

parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. We also
cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise
acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property
rights.

We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and
legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the intellectual
property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious,
have in the past, and may in the future, result in the expenditure of
significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us, or
significant payments for damages, including to satisfy indemnification
obligations or to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have
infringed their rights. Such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable
to us or at all. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third
parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims.

Our digital content offerings depend in part on effective digital rights
management technology to control access to digital content. Breach or
malfunctioning of the digital rights management technology that we use could
subject us to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their
content in our service.

We Have Foreign Exchange Risk

The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances
associated with, our international stores and product and service offerings
are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Due to these fluctuations,
operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record
significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. As
we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate
fluctuations has increased. We also hold cash equivalents and/or marketable
securities in foreign currencies such as British Pounds, Canadian Dollars,
Euros, and Japanese Yen. When the U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to these
currencies, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, when
translated, may be materially less than expected and vice versa.

Operating Risks

Our Expansion Places a Significant Strain on our Management, Operational,
Financial, and Other Resources

We are continuing to rapidly and significantly expand our global operations,
including increasing our product and service offerings and scaling our
infrastructure to support our retail and services businesses. The complexity
of the current scale of our business can place significant strain on our
management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial
resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions, and our
expansion increases these factors. Failure to manage growth effectively could
damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating
results.

We Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Operating Results and Growth
Rate

We are not always able to accurately forecast our growth rate. We base our
expense levels and investment plans on sales estimates. A significant portion
of our expenses and investments is fixed, and we are not always able to adjust
our spending quickly enough if our sales are less than expected.

Our revenue growth may not be sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may
decrease. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued
growth of demand for the products and services offered by us or our sellers,
and our business is affected by general economic, business, and geopolitical
conditions worldwide. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in
customer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may
result in decreased revenue or growth.

Our sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons,
including due to factors described elsewhere in this section and the
following:

•our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new
customers, and satisfy our customers' demands;

•our ability to retain and expand our network of sellers;

•our ability to offer products on favorable terms, manage inventory, and
fulfill orders;

•the introduction of competitive stores, websites, products, services, price
decreases, or improvements;

•changes in usage or adoption rates of the Internet, e-commerce, electronic
devices, and web services, including outside the U.S.;

•timing, effectiveness, and costs of expansion and upgrades of our systems and
infrastructure;

•the success of our geographic, service, and product line expansions;

•the extent to which we finance, and the terms of any such financing for, our
current operations and future growth;

9

* * *

Table of Contents

  

•the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, which may include significant
monetary damages or injunctive relief and could have a material adverse impact
on our operating results;

•variations in the mix of products and services we sell;

•variations in our level of merchandise and vendor returns;

•the extent to which we offer fast and free delivery, continue to reduce
prices worldwide, and provide additional benefits to our customers;

•factors affecting our reputation or brand image (including any actual or
perceived inability to achieve our goals or commitments, whether related to
sustainability, customers, employees, or other topics);

•the extent to which we invest in technology and content, fulfillment, and
other expense categories;

•increases in the prices of transportation (including fuel), energy products,
commodities like paper and packing supplies and hardware products, and
technology infrastructure products, including as a result of inflationary
pressures;

•constrained labor markets, which increase our payroll costs;

•the extent to which operators of the networks between our customers and our
stores successfully charge fees to grant our customers unimpaired and
unconstrained access to our online services;

•our ability to collect amounts owed to us when they become due;

•the extent to which new and existing technologies, or industry trends,
restrict online advertising or affect our ability to customize advertising or
otherwise tailor our product and service offerings;

•the extent to which use of our services is affected by spyware, viruses,
phishing and other spam emails, denial of service attacks, data theft,
computer intrusions, outages, and similar events; and

•disruptions from natural or human-caused disasters (including public health
crises) or extreme weather (including as a result of climate change),
geopolitical events and security issues (including terrorist attacks and armed
hostilities), labor or trade disputes (including restrictive governmental
actions impacting us and our third-party sellers in China or other foreign
countries), and similar events.

We Face Risks Related to Successfully Optimizing and Operating Our Fulfillment
Network and Data Centers

Failures to adequately predict customer demand or otherwise optimize and
operate our fulfillment network and data centers successfully from time to
time result in excess or insufficient fulfillment or data center capacity,
service interruptions, increased costs, and impairment charges, any of which
could materially harm our business. As we continue to add fulfillment and data
center capability or add new businesses with different requirements, our
fulfillment and data center networks become increasingly complex and operating
them becomes more challenging. There can be no assurance that we will be able
to operate our networks effectively.

In addition, failure to optimize inventory or staffing in our fulfillment
network increases our net shipping cost by requiring long-zone or partial
shipments. We and our co-sourcers may be unable to adequately staff our
fulfillment network and customer service centers. For example, productivity
across our fulfillment network currently is being affected by regional labor
market and global supply chain constraints, which increase payroll costs and
make it difficult to hire, train, and deploy a sufficient number of people to
operate our fulfillment network as efficiently as we would like.

Under some of our commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other
companies, thereby increasing the complexity of tracking inventory and
operating our fulfillment network. Our failure to properly handle such
inventory or the inability of the other businesses on whose behalf we perform
inventory fulfillment services to accurately forecast product demand may
result in us being unable to secure sufficient storage space or to optimize
our fulfillment network or cause other unexpected costs and other harm to our
business and reputation.

We rely on a limited number of shipping companies to deliver inventory to us
and completed orders to our customers. An inability to negotiate acceptable
terms with these companies or performance problems, staffing limitations, or
other difficulties experienced by these companies or by our own transportation
systems, including as a result of labor market constraints and related costs,
could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. In
addition, our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship
completed orders to customers also may be negatively affected by natural or
human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather
(including as a result of climate change), geopolitical events and security
issues, labor or trade disputes, and similar events.

10

* * *

Table of Contents

  

We Could Be Harmed by Data Loss or Other Security Breaches

Because we collect, process, store, and transmit large amounts of data,
including confidential, sensitive, proprietary, and business and personal
information, failure to prevent or mitigate data loss, theft, misuse, or other
security breaches or vulnerabilities affecting our or our vendors' or
customers' technology, products, and systems, could: expose us or our
customers to a risk of loss, disclosure, or misuse of such information;
adversely affect our operating results; result in litigation, liability, or
regulatory action (including under laws related to privacy, data use, data
protection, data security, network security, and consumer protection); deter
customers or sellers from using our stores, products, and services; and
otherwise harm our business and reputation. We use third-party technology and
systems for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption
and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers,
back-office support, and other functions. Some of our systems have experienced
past security breaches, and, although they did not have a material adverse
effect on our operating results, there can be no assurance that future
incidents will not have material adverse effects on our operations or
financial results. Although we have developed systems and processes that are
designed to protect customer data and prevent such incidents, including
systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a
third-party vendor or customer, such measures cannot provide absolute security
and may fail to operate as intended or be circumvented.

We Face Risks Related to System Interruption and Lack of Redundancy

We experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our
websites and services unavailable or slow to respond and prevent us from
efficiently accepting or fulfilling orders or providing services to customers
and third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of
our products and services. Steps we take to add software and hardware, upgrade
our systems and network infrastructure, and improve the stability and
efficiency of our systems may not be sufficient to avoid system interruptions
or delays that could adversely affect our operating results.

Our computer and communications systems and operations in the past have been,
or in the future could be, damaged or interrupted due to events such as
natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme
weather (including as a result of climate change), geopolitical events and
security issues (including terrorist attacks and armed hostilities), computer
viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, operational failures (including
from energy shortages), and similar events or disruptions. Any of these events
could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could
prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing
services, which could make our product and service offerings less attractive
and subject us to liability. Our systems are not fully redundant and our
disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient. In addition, our insurance
may not provide sufficient coverage to compensate for related losses. Any of
these events could damage our reputation and be expensive to remedy.

The Loss of Key Senior Management Personnel or the Failure to Hire and Retain
Highly Skilled and Other Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business

We depend on our senior management and other key personnel, including our
President and CEO. We do not have "key person" life insurance policies. We
also rely on other highly skilled personnel. Competition for qualified
personnel in the industries in which we operate, as well as senior management,
has historically been intense. For example, we experience significant
competition in the technology industry, particularly for software engineers,
computer scientists, and other technical staff. In addition, changes we make
to our current and future work environments may not meet the needs or
expectations of our employees or may be perceived as less favorable compared
to other companies' policies, which could negatively impact our ability to
hire and retain qualified personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers
or other key employees, the failure to successfully transition key roles, or
the inability to hire, train, retain, and manage qualified personnel, could
harm our business.

We also rely on a significant number of personnel to operate our stores,
fulfillment network, and data centers and carry out our other operations.
Failure to successfully hire, train, manage, and retain sufficient personnel
to meet our needs can strain our operations, increase payroll and other costs,
and harm our business and reputation. In addition, changes in laws and
regulations applicable to employees, independent contractors, and temporary
personnel could increase our payroll costs, decrease our operational
flexibility, and negatively impact how we are able to staff our operations and
supplement our workforce.

We are also subject to labor union efforts to organize groups of our employees
from time to time. These organizational efforts, if successful, decrease our
operational flexibility, which could adversely affect our operating
efficiency. In addition, our response to any organizational efforts could be
perceived negatively and harm our business and reputation.

Our Supplier Relationships Subject Us to a Number of Risks

We have significant suppliers, including content and technology licensors, and
in some cases, limited or single-sources of supply, that are important to our
sourcing, services, manufacturing, and any related ongoing servicing of
merchandise and content. We do not have long-term arrangements with most of
our suppliers to guarantee availability of merchandise, content,

11

* * *

Table of Contents

  

components, or services, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit
limits. Decisions by our current suppliers to limit or stop selling or
licensing merchandise, content, components, or services to us on acceptable
terms, or delay delivery, including as a result of one or more supplier
bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, as a result of natural or human-
caused disasters (including public health crises), or for other reasons, may
result in our being unable to procure alternatives from other suppliers in a
timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition,
violations by our suppliers or other vendors of applicable laws, regulations,
contractual terms, intellectual property rights of others, or our Supply Chain
Standards, as well as products or practices regarded as unethical, unsafe, or
hazardous, could expose us to claims, damage our reputation, limit our growth,
and negatively affect our operating results.

Our Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business
Relationships Expose Us to Risks

We provide physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, cloud services, and
other services to businesses through commercial agreements, strategic
alliances, and business relationships. Under these agreements, we provide web
services, technology, fulfillment, computing, digital storage, and other
services, as well as enable sellers to offer products or services through our
stores. These arrangements are complex and require substantial infrastructure
capacity, personnel, and other resource commitments, which may limit the
amount of business we can service. We may not be able to implement, maintain,
and develop the components of these commercial relationships, which may
include web services, fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax
collection, payment processing, hardware, content, and third-party software,
and engaging third parties to perform services. The amount of compensation we
receive under certain of our commercial agreements is partially dependent on
the volume of the other company's sales. Therefore, when the other company's
offerings are not successful, the compensation we receive may be lower than
expected or the agreement may be terminated. Moreover, we may not be able to
enter into additional or alternative commercial relationships and strategic
alliances on favorable terms. We also may be subject to claims from businesses
to which we provide these services if we are unsuccessful in implementing,
maintaining, or developing these services.

As our agreements terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these
agreements on comparable terms, or at all. We may in the future enter into
amendments on less favorable terms or encounter parties that have difficulty
meeting their contractual obligations to us, which could adversely affect our
operating results.

Our present and future commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and
business relationships create additional risks such as:

•disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on
existing businesses;

•impairment of other relationships;

•variability in revenue and income from entering into, amending, or
terminating such agreements or relationships; and

•difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements.

Our Business Suffers When We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and
Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments

We have acquired and invested in a number of companies, and we may in the
future acquire or invest in or enter into joint ventures with additional
companies. These transactions involve risks such as:

•disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on
existing businesses;

•problems retaining key personnel;

•additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquired or in
which we invested;

•the potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill,
including as a result of acquisitions;

•the potential impairment of customer and other relationships of the company
we acquired or in which we invested or our own customers as a result of any
integration of operations;

•the difficulty of completing such transactions, including obtaining
regulatory approvals or satisfying other closing conditions, and achieving
anticipated benefits within expected timeframes, or at all;

•the difficulty of incorporating acquired operations, technology, and rights
into our offerings, and unanticipated expenses related to such integration;

•the difficulty of integrating a new company's accounting, financial
reporting, management, information and data security, human resource, and
other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of
control if such integration is delayed or not successfully implemented;

•losses we may incur as a result of declines in the value of an investment or
as a result of incorporating an investee's financial performance into our
financial results;

12

* * *

Table of Contents

  

•for investments in which an investee's financial performance is incorporated
into our financial results, either in full or in part, or investments for
which we are required to file financial statements or provide financial
information, the dependence on the investee's accounting, financial reporting,
and similar systems, controls, and processes;

•the difficulty of implementing at companies we acquire the controls,
procedures, and policies appropriate for a larger public company;

•the risks associated with businesses we acquire or invest in, which may
differ from or be more significant than the risks our other businesses face;

•potential unknown liabilities associated with a company we acquire or in
which we invest; and

•for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of
operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic,
political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.

As a result of future acquisitions or mergers, we might need to issue
additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, contingent
liabilities, or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of
which could reduce our profitability and harm our business or only be
available on unfavorable terms, if at all. In addition, valuations supporting
our acquisitions and strategic investments could change rapidly. We could
determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-
temporary declines in fair value which could adversely impact our financial
results.

We Face Significant Inventory Risk

In addition to risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to
fulfillment network and inventory optimization by us and third parties, we are
exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating
results as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in
product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes in customer demand
and consumer spending patterns, changes in consumer tastes with respect to our
products, spoilage, and other factors. We endeavor to accurately predict these
trends and avoid overstocking or understocking products we manufacture and/or
sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time
inventory or components are ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we
begin selling or manufacturing a new product, it may be difficult to establish
vendor relationships, determine appropriate product or component selection,
and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition of certain types of inventory
or components requires significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not
be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of
certain products, such as consumer electronics, and at times we are unable to
sell products in sufficient quantities or to meet demand during the relevant
selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may
adversely affect our operating results.

We Are Subject to Payments-Related Risks

We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit card, debit
card, credit accounts (including promotional financing), gift cards, direct
debit from a customer's bank account, consumer invoicing, physical bank check,
and payment upon delivery. For existing and future payment options we offer to
our customers, we currently are subject to, and may become subject to
additional, regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations to
implement enhanced authentication processes that could result in significant
costs and reduce the ease of use of our payments products), as well as fraud.
For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay
interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our
operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide
certain Amazon-branded payment methods and payment processing services,
including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and
promotional financing. In each case, it could disrupt our business if these
companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We also
offer co-branded credit card programs, which could adversely affect our
operating results if renewed on less favorable terms or terminated. We are
also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data
security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic
funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult
or impossible for us to comply. Failure to comply with these rules or
requirements, as well as any breach, compromise, or failure to otherwise
detect or prevent fraudulent activity involving our data security systems,
could result in our being liable for card issuing banks' costs, subject to
fines and higher transaction fees, and loss of our ability to accept credit
and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds
transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and
operating results could be adversely affected.

In addition, we provide regulated services in certain jurisdictions because we
enable customers to keep account balances with us and transfer money to third
parties, and because we provide services to third parties to facilitate
payments on their behalf. Jurisdictions subject us to requirements for
licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding and capital maintenance, the use,
handling, and segregation of transferred funds, consumer disclosures,
maintaining or processing data, and authentication. We are also subject to or
voluntarily comply with a number of other laws and regulations relating to
payments, money laundering, international money transfers, privacy, data use,
data protection, data security, data localization, network security, consumer

13

* * *

Table of Contents

  

protection, and electronic fund transfers. If we were found to be in violation
of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to additional
requirements and civil and criminal penalties, or forced to cease providing
certain services.

We Have a Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Is Highly
Volatile

We have a rapidly evolving business model. The trading price of our common
stock fluctuates significantly in response to, among other risks, the risks
described elsewhere in this Item 1A, as well as:

•changes in interest rates;

•conditions or trends in the Internet and the industry segments we operate in;

•quarterly variations in operating results;

•fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for Internet-
related companies in particular;

•changes in financial estimates by us or decisions to increase or decrease
future spending or investment levels;

•changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;

•changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or
equity to the public;

•changes in the valuation methodology of, or performance by, other e-commerce
or technology companies; and

•transactions in our common stock by major investors and certain analyst
reports, news, and speculation.

Volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our business and
financing opportunities and force us to increase our cash compensation to
employees or grant larger stock awards than we have historically, which could
hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing
stockholders, or both.

Legal and Regulatory Risks

Government Regulation Is Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our
Business

We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as
regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, physical,
e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, digital content, web services, electronic
devices, advertising, artificial intelligence technologies and services, and
other products and services that we offer or sell. These regulations and laws
cover taxation, privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data
localization, network security, consumer protection, pricing, content,
copyrights, distribution, transportation, mobile communications, electronic
device certification, electronic waste, energy consumption, environmental
regulation, electronic contracts and other communications, competition,
employment, trade and protectionist measures, web services, the provision of
online payment services, registration, licensing, and information reporting
requirements, unencumbered Internet access to our services or access to our
facilities, the design and operation of websites, health, safety, and
sanitation standards, the characteristics, legality, and quality of products
and services, product labeling, the commercial operation of unmanned aircraft
systems, healthcare, and other matters. It is not clear how existing laws
governing issues such as property ownership, libel, privacy, data use, data
protection, data security, data localization, network security, and consumer
protection apply to aspects of our operations such as the Internet,
e-commerce, digital content, web services, electronic devices, advertising,
and artificial intelligence technologies and services. A large number of
jurisdictions regulate our operations, and the extent, nature, and scope of
such regulations is evolving and expanding as the scope of our businesses
expand. We are regularly subject to formal and informal reviews,
investigations, and other proceedings by governments and regulatory
authorities under existing laws, regulations, or interpretations or pursuing
new and novel approaches to regulate our operations. For example, we face a
number of open investigations based on claims that aspects of our operations
violate competition rules, including aspects of Amazon's U.S. and European
marketplace for sellers, particularly with respect to use of data, fulfillment
services, and featured offers, and legislative and regulatory initiatives in
Europe and elsewhere allow authorities to restrict or prohibit certain
operations or actions pre-emptively without the need to assess specific
competitive effects. Unfavorable regulations, laws, decisions, or
interpretations by government or regulatory authorities applying those laws
and regulations, or inquiries, investigations, or enforcement actions
threatened or initiated by them, could cause us to incur substantial costs,
expose us to unanticipated civil and criminal liability or penalties
(including substantial monetary fines), diminish the demand for, or
availability of, our products and services, increase our cost of doing
business, require us to change our business practices in a manner materially
adverse to our business, damage our reputation, impede our growth, or
otherwise have a material effect on our operations. The media, political, and
regulatory scrutiny we face, which may continue to increase, amplifies these
risks.

14

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Claims, Litigation, Government Investigations, and Other Proceedings May
Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations

As an innovative company offering a wide range of consumer and business
products and services around the world, we are regularly subject to actual and
threatened claims, litigation, reviews, investigations, and other proceedings,
including proceedings by governments and regulatory authorities, involving a
wide range of issues, including patent and other intellectual property
matters, taxes, labor and employment, competition and antitrust, privacy, data
use, data protection, data security, data localization, network security,
consumer protection, commercial disputes, goods and services offered by us and
by third parties, and other matters. The number and scale of these proceedings
have increased over time as our businesses have expanded in scope and
geographic reach, as our products, services, and operations have become more
complex and available to, and used by, more people, and as governments and
regulatory authorities seek to regulate us on a pre-emptive basis. For
example, we are litigating a number of matters alleging price fixing,
monopolization, and consumer protection claims, including those brought by
state attorneys general. Any of these types of proceedings can have an adverse
effect on us because of legal costs, disruption of our operations, diversion
of management resources, negative publicity, and other factors. The outcomes
of these matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant
uncertainties. Determining legal reserves or possible losses from such matters
involves judgment and may not reflect the full range of uncertainties and
unpredictable outcomes. Until the final resolution of such matters, we may be
exposed to losses in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be
material. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have
been incorrect, it could have a material effect on our business, consolidated
financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, it is
possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings, including as a
result of a settlement, could involve licenses, sanctions, consent decrees, or
orders requiring us to make substantial future payments, preventing us from
offering certain products or services, requiring us to change our business
practices in a manner materially adverse to our business, requiring
development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies,
damaging our reputation, or otherwise having a material effect on our
operations.

We Are Subject to Product Liability Claims When People or Property Are Harmed
by the Products We Sell or Manufacture

Some of the products we sell or manufacture expose us to product liability or
food safety claims relating to personal injury or illness, death, or
environmental or property damage, and can require product recalls or other
actions. Third parties who sell products using our services and stores also
expose us to product liability claims. Additionally, under our A-to-z
Guarantee, we may reimburse customers for certain product liability claims up
to certain limits in these situations, and as our third-party seller sales
grow, the cost of this program will increase and could negatively affect our
operating results. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be
certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred
or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically
reasonable terms, or at all. Although we impose contractual terms on sellers
that are intended to prohibit sales of certain type of products, we may not be
able to detect, enforce, or collect sufficient damages for breaches of such
agreements. In addition, some of our agreements with our vendors and sellers
do not indemnify us from product liability.

We Face Additional Tax Liabilities and Collection Obligations

We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection obligations in the
U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We may recognize
additional tax expense and be subject to additional tax liabilities, including
other liabilities for tax collection obligations due to changes in laws,
regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related
to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other
laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. Such changes could come
about as a result of economic, political, and other conditions. An increasing
number of jurisdictions are considering or have adopted laws or administrative
practices that impose new tax measures, including revenue-based taxes,
targeting online commerce and the remote selling of goods and services. These
include new obligations to withhold or collect sales, consumption, value
added, or other taxes on online marketplaces and remote sellers, or other
requirements that may result in liability for third party obligations. For
example, non-U.S. jurisdictions have proposed or enacted taxes on online
advertising and marketplace service revenues. Proliferation of these or
similar unilateral tax measures may continue unless broader international tax
reform is implemented. Our results of operations and cash flows could be
adversely affected by additional taxes imposed on us prospectively or
retroactively or additional taxes or penalties resulting from the failure to
comply with any collection obligations or failure to provide information about
our customers, suppliers, and other third parties for tax reporting purposes
to various government agencies. In some cases we also may not have sufficient
notice to enable us to build systems and adopt processes to properly comply
with new reporting or collection obligations by the effective date.

Our tax expense and liabilities are also affected by other factors, such as
changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new
businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of
our foreign earnings, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not
able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special or
extraterritorial tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates,
changes in our stock price, changes to our forecasts of income and loss and
the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, and changes in our tax assets
and liabilities and their

15

* * *

Table of Contents

  

valuation. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions
and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our tax expense,
assets, and liabilities.

We are also subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions that can
result in tax assessments against us. Developments in an audit, investigation,
or other tax controversy can have a material effect on our operating results
or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as
well as for prior and subsequent periods. Due to the inherent complexity and
uncertainty of these matters, interpretations of certain tax laws by
authorities, and judicial, administrative, and regulatory processes in certain
jurisdictions, the final outcome of any such controversy may be materially
different from our expectations. For example, in February 2023, the Indian Tax
Authority determined that tax applies to cloud services fees paid to the U.S.
We are contesting this determination; however, if this matter is adversely
resolved, we may be required to pay additional amounts with respect to current
and prior periods and our taxes in the future could increase. We regularly
assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings
to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. Although we believe our tax
estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any
other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical tax
accruals.

We Are Subject to Risks Related to Government Contracts and Related
Procurement Regulations

Our contracts with U.S., as well as state, local, and foreign, government
entities are subject to various procurement regulations and other requirements
relating to their formation, administration, and performance. We are subject
to audits and investigations relating to our government contracts, and any
violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and
administrative sanctions, including termination of contract, refunding or
suspending of payments, forfeiture of profits, payment of fines, and
suspension or debarment from future government business. In addition, some of
these contracts are subject to periodic funding approval and/or provide for
termination by the government at any time, without cause.

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 1B.| Unresolved Staff Comments  
  
None.

16

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 2.| Properties  
  
As of December 31, 2022, we operated the following facilities (in thousands):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Description of Use| | Leased Square Footage (1)| | Owned Square Footage| |
Location  
Office space| | 30,611| | 6,792| | North America  
Office space| | 23,956| | 1,802| | International  
Physical stores (2)| | 22,881| | 662| | North America  
Physical stores (2)| | 291| | --| | International  
Fulfillment, data centers, and other| | 391,598| | 22,058| | North America  
Fulfillment, data centers, and other| | 148,146| | 12,613| | International  
Total| | 617,483| | 43,927| |  
  
___________________

(1)For leased properties, represents the total leased space excluding sub-
leased space.

(2)This includes 611 North America and 32 International stores as of December
31, 2022.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Segment| | Leased Square Footage (1)| | Owned Square Footage (1)  
North America| | 403,984| | 13,595  
International| | 140,898| | 6,292  
AWS| | 18,034| | 15,446  
Total| | 562,916| | 35,333  
  
___________________

(1)Segment amounts exclude corporate facilities. Shared facilities are
allocated among the segments based on usage and primarily relate to facilities
that hold our technology infrastructure. See Item 8 of Part II, "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 10 -- Segment Information."

We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Washington's Puget Sound region
and Arlington, Virginia.

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 3.| Legal Proceedings  
  
See Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 7
-- Commitments and Contingencies -- Legal Proceedings."

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 4.| Mine Safety Disclosures  
  
Not applicable.

17

* * *

Table of Contents

  

PART II

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 5.| Market for the Registrant's Common Stock, Related Shareholder
Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
  
Market Information

Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol
"AMZN."

Holders

As of January 25, 2023, there were 10,845 shareholders of record of our common
stock, although there is a much larger number of beneficial owners.

Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities

None.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

None.

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 6.| Reserved  
  
  

18

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 7.| Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  
  
Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All
statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements
regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or
financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-
looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends,
and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-
looking statements reflect management's current expectations and are
inherently uncertain. Actual results and outcomes could differ materially for
a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer demand and
spending, inflation, interest rates, regional labor market and global supply
chain constraints, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online
commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new
business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of
products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from
products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other
taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating
results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of claims,
litigation, government investigations, and other proceedings, fulfillment,
sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory
management, variability in demand, the degree to which we enter into,
maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed
acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of
fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, global economic and
geopolitical conditions and additional or unforeseen circumstances,
developments, or events may give rise to or amplify many of these risks. These
risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could
cause our actual results or outcomes to differ significantly from management's
expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part I, "Risk
Factors."

Overview

Our primary source of revenue is the sale of a wide range of products and
services to customers. The products offered through our stores include
merchandise and content we have purchased for resale and products offered by
third-party sellers, and we also manufacture and sell electronic devices and
produce media content. Generally, we recognize gross revenue from items we
sell from our inventory as product sales and recognize our net share of
revenue of items sold by third-party sellers as service sales. We seek to
increase unit sales across our stores, through increased product selection,
across numerous product categories. We also offer other services such as
compute, storage, and database offerings, fulfillment, advertising,
publishing, and digital content subscriptions.

Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flows.
Free cash flows are driven primarily by increasing operating income and
efficiently managing accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, and
cash capital expenditures, including our decision to purchase or lease
property and equipment. Increases in operating income primarily result from
increases in sales of products and services and efficiently managing our
operating costs, partially offset by investments we make in longer-term
strategic initiatives, including capital expenditures focused on improving the
customer experience. To increase sales of products and services, we focus on
improving all aspects of the customer experience, including lowering prices,
improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times,
increasing selection, producing original content, increasing product
categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving
ease of use, improving reliability, and earning customer trust. See "Results
of Operations -- Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for additional information
on our non-GAAP free cash flows financial measures.

We seek to reduce our variable costs per unit and work to leverage our fixed
costs. Our variable costs include product and content costs, payment
processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and preparing
orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, costs necessary
to run AWS, and a portion of our marketing costs. Our fixed costs include the
costs necessary to build and run our technology infrastructure; to build,
enhance, and add features to our online stores, web services, electronic
devices, and digital offerings; and to build and optimize our fulfillment
network. Variable costs generally change directly with sales volume, while
fixed costs generally are dependent on the timing of capacity needs,
geographic expansion, category expansion, and other factors. To decrease our
variable costs on a per unit basis and enable us to lower prices for
customers, we seek to increase our direct sourcing, increase discounts from
suppliers, and reduce defects in our processes. To minimize unnecessary growth
in fixed costs, we seek to improve process efficiencies and maintain a lean
culture.

We seek to turn inventory quickly and collect from consumers before our
payments to vendors and sellers become due. Because consumers primarily use
credit cards in our stores, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. We
expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by
numerous factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by
third-party sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability
and selection of product offerings, supply chain disruptions and resulting
vendor lead times, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and
the extent to which we choose to utilize third-party fulfillment providers. We
also expect some variability in accounts payable days over time since they are
affected by several factors, including the mix of product sales, the mix of
sales by third-party sellers, the mix

19

* * *

Table of Contents

  

of suppliers, seasonality, and changes in payment and other terms over time,
including the effect of balancing pricing and timing of payment terms with
suppliers.

We expect spending in technology and content will increase over time as we add
computer scientists, designers, software and hardware engineers, and
merchandising employees. Our technology and content investment and capital
spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due
to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and
operations. We seek to invest efficiently in several areas of technology and
content, including AWS, and expansion of new and existing product categories
and service offerings, as well as in technology infrastructure to enhance the
customer experience and improve our process efficiencies. We believe that
advances in technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost of processing
power, data storage and analytics, improved wireless connectivity, and the
practical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, will
continue to improve users' experience on the Internet and increase its
ubiquity in people's lives. To best take advantage of these continued advances
in technology, we are investing in AWS, which offers a broad set of on-demand
technology services, including compute, storage, database, analytics, and
machine learning, and other services, to developers and enterprises of all
sizes. We are also investing in initiatives to build and deploy innovative and
efficient software and electronic devices as well as other initiatives
including the development of a satellite network for global broadband service
and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.

We seek to efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the
flexibility to issue shares for strategic purposes, such as financings,
acquisitions, and aligning employee compensation with shareholders' interests.
We utilize restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for equity
compensation because we believe this compensation model aligns the long-term
interests of our shareholders and employees. In measuring shareholder
dilution, we include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, without
regard to estimated forfeitures. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding
stock awards were 10.5 billion and 10.6 billion as of December 31, 2021 and
2022.

Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar and changes in foreign
exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated
trends. For example, if the U.S. Dollar weakens year-over-year relative to
currencies in our international locations, our consolidated net sales and
operating expenses will be higher than if currencies had remained constant.
Likewise, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative to currencies
in our international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating
expenses will be lower than if currencies had remained constant. We believe
that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our
growing international businesses benefits our shareholders over the long-term.
We also believe it is useful to evaluate our operating results and growth
rates before and after the effect of currency changes.

In addition, the remeasurement of our intercompany balances can result in
significant gains and losses associated with the effect of movements in
foreign currency exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may
significantly impact (either positively or negatively) our reported results
and consolidated trends and comparisons.

For additional information about each line item addressed above, refer to Item
8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 1 --
Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures."

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes a
discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations
for the year ended December 31, 2020 in Item 7 of Part II, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Critical Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles of the United States ("GAAP") requires estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in
the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Critical
accounting estimates are those estimates made in accordance with GAAP that
involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are
reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial condition or
results of operations of the Company. Based on this definition, we have
identified the critical accounting estimates addressed below. We also have
other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments,
and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For
additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data -- Note 1 -- Description of Business, Accounting Policies,
and Supplemental Disclosures." Although we believe that our estimates,
assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information
presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these
estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions.

Inventories

Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily
accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower
of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make
judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method
of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to
product

20

* * *

Table of Contents

  

vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition
category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are
inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us
to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity,
for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31,
2022, we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $390
million.

In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device
components and certain products. These commitments are based on forecasted
customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional
costs.

Income Taxes

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous
foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, administrative practices,
principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to
significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and
other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and
estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many
transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the
ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, our actual and
forecasted earnings are subject to change due to economic, political, and
other conditions and significant judgment is required in determining our
ability to use our deferred tax assets.

Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as changes
in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new
businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of
our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in
jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated
in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in
jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the
applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange
rates, changes in our stock price, changes to our forecasts of income and loss
and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in our deferred tax
assets and liabilities and their valuation, changes in the laws, regulations,
administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax,
including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and
accounting rules in various jurisdictions. In addition, a number of countries
have enacted or are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to
corporate multinationals.

We are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions,
and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against
us. Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could
have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or
periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent
periods. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting
from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. Although
we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits,
investigations, and any other tax controversies could be materially different
from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash flow information is as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2021| | 2022  
Cash provided by (used in):| | |  
Operating activities| $| 46,327 | | | $| 46,752 |  
Investing activities| (58,154)| | | (37,601)|  
Financing activities| 6,291 | | | 9,718 |  
| | |  
| | |  
  
Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations
and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at
fair value, were $96.0 billion and $70.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 and
2022. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $22.7 billion and $18.3 billion
as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. Our foreign currency balances include
British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Euros, and Japanese Yen.

Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $46.3 billion and $46.8
billion in 2021 and 2022. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash
received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator
customers, and advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and
services, employee compensation, payment processing and related transaction
costs, operating leases, and interest payments. Cash received from our
customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. The
increase in operating cash flow in 2022, compared to the prior year, was
primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash expenses,
partially offset by changes in working capital. Working capital at any
specific point in time is subject to many variables, including variability in
demand, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash
receipts and payments, customer and vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in
foreign exchange rates.

21

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital
expenditures, including leasehold improvements, incentives received from
property and equipment vendors, proceeds from asset sales, cash outlays for
acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights,
and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided
by (used in) investing activities was $(58.2) billion and $(37.6) billion in
2021 and 2022, with the variability caused primarily by purchases, sales, and
maturities of marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $55.4
billion, and $58.3 billion in 2021 and 2022, which primarily reflect
investments in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support
AWS business growth) and in additional capacity to support our fulfillment
network. We expect to continue these investments over time, with increased
spending on technology infrastructure. We made cash payments, net of acquired
cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $2.0 billion and
$8.3 billion in 2021 and 2022. We funded the acquisition of MGM Holdings Inc.
with cash on hand. We expect to fund the acquisitions of 1Life Healthcare,
Inc. (One Medical) and iRobot Corporation with cash on hand.

Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $6.3 billion and $9.7
billion in 2021 and 2022. Cash inflows from financing activities resulted from
proceeds from short-term debt, and other and long-term-debt of $27.0 billion
and $62.7 billion in 2021 and 2022. Cash outflows from financing activities
resulted from repurchases of common stock, payments of short-term debt, and
other, long-term debt, finance leases, and financing obligations of $20.7
billion and $53.0 billion in 2021 and 2022. Property and equipment acquired
under finance leases was $7.1 billion and $675 million in 2021 and 2022.

We had no borrowings outstanding under the two unsecured revolving credit
facilities, $6.8 billion of borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper
programs, and $1.0 billion of borrowings outstanding under the secured
revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2022. See Item 8 of Part II,
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 6 -- Debt" for additional
information.

As of December 31, 2022, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities
held by foreign subsidiaries were $4.7 billion. We intend to invest
substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital
in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those
jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon
repatriation of such amounts.

Our U.S. taxable income is reduced by accelerated depreciation deductions and
increased by the impact of capitalized research and development expenses. U.S.
tax rules provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing
the election of full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment,
through 2022. Our federal tax provision included a partial election for 2020
and 2021, and a full election for 2022. Effective January 1, 2022, research
and development expenses are required to be capitalized and amortized for U.S.
tax purposes, which delays the deductibility of these expenses. Cash taxes
paid (net of refunds) were $3.7 billion and $6.0 billion for 2021 and 2022.

As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, restricted cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities were $260 million and $365 million. See Item 8 of Part
II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 6 -- Debt" and
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 7 -- Commitments and
Contingencies" for additional discussion of our principal contractual
commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, we have purchase
obligations and open purchase orders, including for inventory and capital
expenditures, that support normal operations and are primarily due in the next
twelve months. These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are
generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions.

We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as our borrowing
arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs
for at least the next twelve months. However, any projections of future cash
needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of
Part I, "Risk Factors." We continually evaluate opportunities to sell
additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities, obtain finance
and operating lease arrangements, enter into financing obligations, repurchase
common stock, pay dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or otherwise
restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our
financial position.

The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would be dilutive
to our shareholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider the
acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products,
services, capital infrastructure, and technologies, which might affect our
liquidity requirements or cause us to secure additional financing, or issue
additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that
additional credit lines or financing instruments will be available in amounts
or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, economic conditions and
actions by policymaking bodies are contributing to rising interest rates and
significant capital market volatility, which, along with increases in our
borrowing levels, could increase our future borrowing costs.

22

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Results of Operations

We have organized our operations into three segments: North America,
International, and AWS. These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates
its business performance and manages its operations. See Item 8 of Part II,
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 10 -- Segment
Information."

Overview

Macroeconomic factors, including inflation, increased interest rates,
significant capital market volatility, the prolonged COVID-19 pandemic, global
supply chain constraints, and global economic and geopolitical developments,
have direct and indirect impacts on our results of operations that are
difficult to isolate and quantify. These factors contributed to increases in
our operating costs during 2022, particularly across our North America and
International segments, primarily due to a return to more normal, seasonal
demand volumes in relation to our fulfillment network fixed costs, increased
transportation and utility costs, and increased wage rates. In addition,
rising fuel, utility, and food costs, rising interest rates, and recessionary
fears may impact customer demand and our ability to forecast consumer spending
patterns. We also expect the current macroeconomic environment and enterprise
customer cost optimization efforts to impact our AWS revenue growth rates. We
expect some or all of these factors to continue to impact our operations into
Q1 2023.

Net Sales

Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue
from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content
where we record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party
seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and
shipping fees, AWS sales, advertising services, Amazon Prime membership fees,
and certain digital content subscriptions. Net sales information is as follows
(in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2021| | 2022  
Net Sales:| | |  
North America| $| 279,833 | | | $| 315,880 |  
International| 127,787 | | | 118,007 |  
AWS| 62,202 | | | 80,096 |  
Consolidated| $| 469,822 | | | $| 513,983 |  
Year-over-year Percentage Growth (Decline):| | |  
North America| 18 | %| | 13 | %  
International| 22 | | | (8)|  
AWS| 37 | | | 29 |  
Consolidated| 22 | | | 9 |  
Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange
rates:| | |  
North America| 18 | %| | 13 | %  
International| 20 | | | 4 |  
AWS| 37 | | | 29 |  
Consolidated| 21 | | | 13 |  
Net sales mix:| | |  
North America| 60 | %| | 61 | %  
International| 27 | | | 23 |  
AWS| 13 | | | 16 |  
Consolidated| 100 | %| | 100 | %  
  
Sales increased 9% in 2022, compared to the prior year. Changes in foreign
currency exchange rates reduced net sales by $15.5 billion in 2022. For a
discussion of the effect of foreign exchange rates on sales growth, see
"Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates" below.

North America sales increased 13% in 2022, compared to the prior year. The
sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by
third-party sellers, advertising sales, and subscription services. Increased
unit sales were driven largely by our continued focus on price, selection, and
convenience for our customers, including from our shipping offers.

23

* * *

Table of Contents

  

International sales decreased 8% in 2022, compared to the prior year,
primarily due to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates,
partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by third-party
sellers, advertising sales, and subscription services. Increased unit sales
were driven largely by our continued focus on price, selection, and
convenience for our customers, including from our shipping offers. Changes in
foreign currency exchange rates reduced International net sales by $15.0
billion in 2022.

AWS sales increased 29% in 2022, compared to the prior year. The sales growth
primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing
changes, primarily driven by long-term customer contracts.

Operating Income (Loss)

Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2021| | 2022  
Operating Income (Loss)| | |  
North America| $| 7,271 | | | $| (2,847)|  
International| (924)| | | (7,746)|  
AWS| 18,532 | | | 22,841 |  
Consolidated| $| 24,879 | | | $| 12,248 |  
  
Operating income was $24.9 billion and $12.2 billion for 2021 and 2022. We
believe that operating income is a more meaningful measure than gross profit
and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services.

The North America operating loss in 2022, as compared to the operating income
in the prior year, is primarily due to increased fulfillment and shipping
costs, due in part to increases in investments in our fulfillment network,
transportation costs, and wage rates and incentives, increased technology and
content costs, and growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset by
increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising
sales. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates positively impacted
operating loss by $274 million in 2022.

The increase in International operating loss in absolute dollars in 2022,
compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased fulfillment and
shipping costs, due in part to increases in investments in our fulfillment
network, transportation costs, and wage rates and incentives, increased
technology and content costs, and growth in certain operating expenses,
partially offset by increased advertising sales and increased unit sales,
including sales by third-party sellers. Changes in foreign currency exchange
rates negatively impacted operating loss by $857 million in 2022.

The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to
the prior year, is primarily due to increased sales and cost structure
productivity, including a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense
from our change in the estimated useful lives of our servers and networking
equipment, partially offset by increased payroll and related expenses and
spending on technology infrastructure, all of which were primarily driven by
additional investments to support AWS business growth. Changes in foreign
currency exchange rates positively impacted operating income by $1.4 billion
in 2022.

24

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Operating Expenses

Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2021| | 2022  
Operating expenses:| | |  
Cost of sales| $| 272,344 | | | $| 288,831 |  
Fulfillment| 75,111 | | | 84,299 |  
Technology and content| 56,052 | | | 73,213 |  
Sales and marketing| 32,551 | | | 42,238 |  
General and administrative| 8,823 | | | 11,891 |  
Other operating expense (income), net| 62 | | | 1,263 |  
Total operating expenses| $| 444,943 | | | $| 501,735 |  
Year-over-year Percentage Growth (Decline):| | |  
Cost of sales| 17 | %| | 6 | %  
Fulfillment| 28 | | | 12 |  
Technology and content| 31 | | | 31 |  
Sales and marketing| 48 | | | 30 |  
General and administrative| 32 | | | 35 |  
Other operating expense (income), net| (183)| | | 1,936 |  
Percent of Net Sales:| | |  
Cost of sales| 58.0 | %| | 56.2 | %  
Fulfillment| 16.0 | | | 16.4 |  
Technology and content| 11.9 | | | 14.2 |  
Sales and marketing| 6.9 | | | 8.2 |  
General and administrative| 1.9 | | | 2.3 |  
Other operating expense (income), net| 0.0 | | | 0.2 |  
  
Cost of Sales

Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products,
inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and
delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and
digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and
music.

The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the
prior year, is primarily due to increased shipping and product costs resulting
from increased sales and increases in investments in our fulfillment network,
transportation costs, and wage rates and incentives. Changes in foreign
exchange rates reduced cost of sales by $10.8 billion in 2022.

Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our
inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our
customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery centers and
transportation costs, were $76.7 billion and $83.5 billion in 2021 and 2022.
We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our
customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we use
more expensive shipping methods, including faster delivery, and we offer
additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part
through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network,
negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating
efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is
fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is
through shipping offers.

Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as "Technology and
content" as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our
internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers.

Fulfillment

Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and
staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, physical
stores, and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS
payment processing and related transaction costs are included in
"Fulfillment," AWS costs are primarily classified as "Technology and content."
Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several
factors, such as payment processing and related

25

* * *

Table of Contents

  

transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume,
size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent to which third-
party sellers utilize Fulfillment by Amazon services, timing of fulfillment
network and physical store expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment
services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our
ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing
improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service
features. Additionally, sales by our sellers have higher payment processing
and related transaction costs as a percentage of net sales compared to our
retail sales because payment processing costs are based on the gross purchase
price of underlying transactions.

The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the
prior year, is primarily due to increased investments in our fulfillment
network and variable costs corresponding with increased product and service
sales volume and inventory levels, and increased wage rates and incentives.
Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced fulfillment costs by $2.5 billion in
2022.

We seek to expand our fulfillment network to accommodate a greater selection
and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from
sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we
provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility
requirements.

Technology and Content

Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for
employees involved in the research and development of new and existing
products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores,
curation and display of products and services made available in our online
stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers,
networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization,
rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon
businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order
to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including
expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and
efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite
network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing
services.

We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and content so
we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process
efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever
increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending
projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to
geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and
operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time
as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are
allocated to segments based on usage. The increase in technology and content
costs in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily
due to increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams
responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives
to introduce new products and service offerings, and an increase in spending
on technology infrastructure, partially offset by a reduction in depreciation
and amortization expense from our change in the estimated useful lives of our
servers and networking equipment. See Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data -- Note 1 -- Description of Business, Accounting
Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures -- Use of Estimates" for additional
information on the change in estimated useful lives of our servers and
networking equipment.

Sales and Marketing

Sales and marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses
for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales
commissions related to AWS. We direct customers to our stores primarily
through a number of marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, social
and online advertising, third party customer referrals, television
advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable,
based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is
increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent
our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding
change in our marketing costs.

The increase in sales and marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2022,
compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased payroll and related
expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities and higher
marketing spend.

While costs associated with Amazon Prime membership benefits and other
shipping offers are not included in sales and marketing expense, we view these
offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering
them indefinitely.

General and Administrative

The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2022,
compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increases in payroll and
related expenses and professional fees.

26

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Other Operating Expense (Income), Net

Other operating expense (income), net was $62 million and $1.3 billion during
2021 and 2022, and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible
assets and, for 2022, $1.1 billion of impairments of property and equipment
and operating leases.

Interest Income and Expense

Our interest income was $448 million and $989 million during 2021 and 2022,
primarily due to an increase in prevailing rates. We generally invest our
excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to
intermediate-term fixed income securities. Our interest income corresponds
with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates,
which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are
invested.

Interest expense was $1.8 billion and $2.4 billion in 2021 and 2022 and was
primarily related to debt and finance leases. See Item 8 of Part II,
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 4 -- Leases and Note 6 --
Debt" for additional information.

Our long-term lease liabilities were $67.7 billion and $73.0 billion as of
December 31, 2021 and 2022. Our long-term debt was $48.7 billion and $67.1
billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. See Item 8 of Part II, "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 4 -- Leases and Note 6 -- Debt" for
additional information.

Other Income (Expense), Net

Other income (expense), net was $14.6 billion and $(16.8) billion during 2021
and 2022. The primary components of other income (expense), net are related to
equity securities valuations and adjustments, equity warrant valuations, and
foreign currency. Included in other income (expense), net in 2021 and 2022 is
a marketable equity securities valuation gain (loss) of $11.8 billion and
$(12.7) billion from our equity investment in Rivian.

Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several
factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and
the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the
applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business,
acquisitions, investments, developments in tax controversies, changes in our
stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their
valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes, regulations,
case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations
related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition,
and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative
changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Our
effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax
income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible
expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is
lower. In addition, we record valuation allowances against deferred tax assets
when there is uncertainty about our ability to generate future income in
relevant jurisdictions.

We recorded a provision (benefit) for income taxes of $4.8 billion and $(3.2)
billion in 2021 and 2022. See Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data -- Note 9 -- Income Taxes" for additional information.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC
regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP
financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of
foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the
definition of non-GAAP financial measures.

We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these
measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property
and equipment with cash and through finance leases and financing obligations.

27

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of property
and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives." The following is a
reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow
measure, "Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities," for 2021 and
2022 (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2021| | 2022  
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities| $| 46,327 | | | $| 46,752
|  
Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and
incentives| (55,396)| | | (58,321)|  
Free cash flow| $| (9,069)| | | $| (11,569)|  
| | |  
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities| $| (58,154)| | | $|
(37,601)|  
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities| $| 6,291 | | | $| 9,718 |  
  
Free Cash Flow Less Principal Repayments of Finance Leases and Financing
Obligations

Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing
obligations is free cash flow reduced by "Principal repayments of finance
leases" and "Principal repayments of financing obligations." Principal
repayments of finance leases and financing obligations approximates the actual
payments of cash for our finance leases and financing obligations. The
following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less principal repayments of
finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow
measure, "Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities," for 2021 and
2022 (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2021| | 2022  
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities| $| 46,327 | | | $| 46,752
|  
Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and
incentives| (55,396)| | | (58,321)|  
Free cash flow| (9,069)| | | (11,569)|  
Principal repayments of finance leases| (11,163)| | | (7,941)|  
Principal repayments of financing obligations| (162)| | | (248)|  
Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing
obligations| $| (20,394)| | | $| (19,758)|  
| | |  
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities| $| (58,154)| | | $|
(37,601)|  
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities| $| 6,291 | | | $| 9,718 |  
  
28

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Free Cash Flow Less Equipment Finance Leases and Principal Repayments of All
Other Finance Leases and Financing Obligations

Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all
other finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by
equipment acquired under finance leases, which is included in "Property and
equipment acquired under finance leases, net of remeasurements and
modifications," principal repayments of all other finance lease liabilities,
which is included in "Principal repayments of finance leases," and "Principal
repayments of financing obligations." All other finance lease liabilities and
financing obligations consists of property. In this measure, equipment
acquired under finance leases is reflected as if these assets had been
purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased.
The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less equipment finance
leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing
obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, "Net cash provided
by (used in) operating activities," for 2021 and 2022 (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2021| | 2022  
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities| $| 46,327 | | | $| 46,752
|  
Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and
incentives| (55,396)| | | (58,321)|  
Free cash flow| (9,069)| | | (11,569)|  
Equipment acquired under finance leases (1)| (4,422)| | | (299)|  
Principal repayments of all other finance leases (2)| (687)| | | (670)|  
Principal repayments of financing obligations| (162)| | | (248)|  
Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all
other finance leases and financing obligations| $| (14,340)| | | $| (12,786)|  
| | |  
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities| $| (58,154)| | | $|
(37,601)|  
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities| $| 6,291 | | | $| 9,718 |  
  
___________________

(1)For the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, this amount relates to
equipment included in "Property and equipment acquired under finance leases,
net of remeasurements and modifications" of $7,061 million and $675 million.

(2)For the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, this amount relates to
property included in "Principal repayments of finance leases" of $11,163
million and $7,941 million.

All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain
components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the
residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example,
these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments
representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business
acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions
with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we
believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement
to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows.

Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates

Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S.
Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided
to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates
remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. The
effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes
in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in
millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31, 2021| | Year Ended December 31, 2022  
| As  
Reported| | Exchange  
Rate  
Effect (1)| | At Prior  
Year  
Rates (2)| | As  
Reported| | Exchange  
Rate  
Effect (1)| | At Prior  
Year  
Rates (2)  
Net sales| $| 469,822 | | | $| (3,804)| | | $| 466,018 | | | $| 513,983 | | |
$| 15,495 | | | $| 529,478 |  
Operating expenses| 444,943 | | | (3,653)| | | 441,290 | | | 501,735 | | |
16,356 | | | 518,091 |  
Operating income| 24,879 | | | (151)| | | 24,728 | | | 12,248 | | | (861)| | |
11,387 |  
  
___________________

(1)Represents the change in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign
exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for
operating results.

(2)Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates
in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable
prior year period for operating results.

29

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Guidance

We provided guidance on February 2, 2023, in our earnings release furnished on
Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect
Amazon.com's expectations as of February 2, 2023, and are subject to
substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be
materially affected by many factors, such as uncertainty regarding the impacts
of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in
global economic and geopolitical conditions and customer demand and spending
(including the impact of recessionary fears), inflation, interest rates,
regional labor market and global supply chain constraints, world events, the
rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, as well
as those outlined in Item 1A of Part I, "Risk Factors."

First Quarter 2023 Guidance

•Net sales are expected to be between $121.0 billion and $126.0 billion, or to
grow between 4% and 8% compared with first quarter 2022. This guidance
anticipates an unfavorable impact of approximately 210 basis points from
foreign exchange rates.

•Operating income is expected to be between $0 and $4.0 billion, compared with
$3.7 billion in first quarter 2022.

•This guidance assumes, among other things, that no additional business
acquisitions, restructurings, or legal settlements are concluded.

30

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 7A.| Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
  
We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign
currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments.
Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market
risk is set forth below and in Item 7 of Part II, "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and
Capital Resources."

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to
our investment portfolio and our debt. Our long-term debt is carried at
amortized cost and fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our
consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value of our long-term
debt, which pays interest at a fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with
movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of
interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest.

We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and
investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Fixed
income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a
rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to
sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest
rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and
marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected
maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates as of December 31,
2022 (in millions, except percentages):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| | 2023| | 2024| | 2025| | 2026| | 2027| | Thereafter| | Total| | Estimated
Fair Value as of December 31, 2022  
Money market funds| | $| 27,899 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $|
-- | | | $| -- | | | $| 27,899 | | | $| 27,899 |  
Weighted average interest rate| | 4.18 | %| | -- | %| | -- | %| | -- | %| | --
| %| | -- | %| | 4.18 | %| |  
Corporate debt securities| | 17,500 | | | 2,486 | | | 2,332 | | | 748 | | | 9
| | | -- | | | 23,075 | | | 22,627 |  
Weighted average interest rate| | 4.06 | %| | 0.97 | %| | 1.23 | %| | 1.45 |
%| | 2.33 | %| | -- | %| | 3.35 | %| |  
U.S. government and agency securities| | 819 | | | 358 | | | 554 | | | 396 | |
| 80 | | | 75 | | | 2,282 | | | 2,146 |  
Weighted average interest rate| | 1.05 | %| | 0.98 | %| | 0.81 | %| | 0.83 |
%| | 1.24 | %| | 1.83 | %| | 0.98 | %| |  
Asset-backed securities| | 1,059 | | | 872 | | | 413 | | | 146 | | | 128 | | |
72 | | | 2,690 | | | 2,572 |  
Weighted average interest rate| | 0.99 | %| | 1.30 | %| | 1.37 | %| | 1.39 |
%| | 1.41 | %| | 1.06 | %| | 1.19 | %| |  
Foreign government and agency securities| | 519 | | | 19 | | | -- | | | -- | |
| -- | | | -- | | | 538 | | | 535 |  
Weighted average interest rate| | 4.24 | %| | 0.60 | %| | -- | %| | -- | %| |
-- | %| | -- | %| | 4.11 | %| |  
Other fixed income securities| | 138 | | | 61 | | | 48 | | | -- | | | -- | | |
-- | | | 247 | | | 237 |  
Weighted average interest rate| | 0.40 | %| | 0.56 | %| | 1.15 | %| | -- | %|
| -- | %| | -- | %| | 0.58 | %| |  
| | $| 47,934 | | | $| 3,796 | | | $| 3,347 | | | $| 1,290 | | | $| 217 | | |
$| 147 | | | $| 56,731 | | |  
Cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities| | | | | | | | | | | |
| | | | $| 56,016 |  
  
As of December 31, 2022, we had long-term debt with a face value of $70.5
billion, including the current portion, primarily consisting of fixed rate
unsecured senior notes. See Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data -- Note 6 -- Debt" for additional information.

31

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Foreign Exchange Risk

During 2022, net sales from our International segment accounted for 23% of our
consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our
internationally-focused stores, including within Canada and Mexico (which are
included in our North America segment), are primarily denominated in the
functional currencies of the corresponding stores and primarily include Euros,
British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The results of operations of, and certain of
our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused stores
and AWS are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation,
as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may
differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or
losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result
of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates throughout the year compared to
rates in effect the prior year, International segment net sales decreased by
$15.0 billion in comparison with the prior year.

We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities ("foreign funds"). Based on the balance
of foreign funds as of December 31, 2022, of $18.3 billion, an assumed 5%,
10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in declines of
$915 million, $1.8 billion, and $3.7 billion.

We also have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances
denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany balances
as of December 31, 2022, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign
exchange rates would result in losses of $275 million, $555 million, and $1.1
billion, recorded to "Other income (expense), net."

See Item 7 of Part II, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Results of Operations -- Effect of
Foreign Exchange Rates" for additional information on the effect on reported
results of changes in foreign exchange rates.

Equity Investment Risk

As of December 31, 2022, our recorded value in equity and equity warrant
investments in public and private companies was $7.2 billion. Our equity and
equity warrant investments in publicly traded companies, which primarily
relate to Rivian, represent $5.0 billion of our investments as of December 31,
2022, and are recorded at fair value, which is subject to market price
volatility. We record our equity warrant investments in private companies at
fair value and adjust our equity investments in private companies for
observable price changes or impairments. Valuations of private companies are
inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. The
current global economic conditions provide additional uncertainty. As such, we
believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. See Item 8 of Part II,
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 1 -- Description of
Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures" for additional
information.

32

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 8.| Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
  
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Page  
  
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
(PCAOB ID: 42)

|

34  
  
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

|

36  
  
Consolidated Statements of Operations

|

37  
  
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)

|

38  
  
Consolidated Balance Sheets

|

39  
  
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity

|

40  
  
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

|

41  
  
  

33

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Amazon.com, Inc.

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com,
Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss),
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2022, and the related notes (collectively referred to as
the "consolidated financial statements"). In our opinion, the consolidated
financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of the Company at December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2022, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria
established in Internal Control -- Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013
framework) and our report dated February 2, 2023 expressed an unqualified
opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company's consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a
public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal
securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included
performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the
consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and
performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in
the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial
statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the
current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that:
(1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated
financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective
or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not
alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken
as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below,
providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts
or disclosures to which it relates.

34

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Uncertain Tax Positions  
Description of  
the Matter|

As discussed in Notes 1 and 9 of the consolidated financial statements, the
Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign
jurisdictions and during the ordinary course of business, there are many tax
positions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result,
significant judgment is required in evaluating the Company's tax positions and
determining its provision for income taxes. The Company uses significant
judgment in (1) determining whether a tax position's technical merits are more
likely than not to be sustained and (2) measuring the amount of tax benefit
that qualifies for recognition. As of December 31, 2022, the Company reported
accrued liabilities of $4.0 billion for various tax contingencies.

Auditing the recognition and measurement of the Company's tax contingencies
was challenging because the evaluation of whether a tax position is more
likely than not to be sustained and the measurement of the benefit of various
tax positions can be complex and involves significant auditor judgment.
Management's evaluation of tax positions is based on interpretations of tax
laws and legal rulings, and may be impacted by regulatory changes and judicial
and examination activity.  
  
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit|

We tested controls over the Company's process to assess the technical merits
of its tax contingencies, including controls over: the assessment as to
whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained; the
measurement of the benefit of its tax positions, both initially and on an
ongoing basis; and the development of the related disclosures.

We involved our international tax, transfer pricing, and research and
development tax professionals in assessing the technical merits of certain of
the Company's tax positions. Depending on the nature of the specific tax
position and, as applicable, developments with the relevant tax authorities
relating thereto, our procedures included obtaining and examining the
Company's analysis including the Company's correspondence with such tax
authorities and evaluating the underlying facts upon which the tax positions
are based. We used our knowledge of and experience with international,
transfer pricing, and other income tax laws of the relevant taxing
jurisdictions to evaluate the Company's accounting for its tax contingencies.
We evaluated developments in the applicable regulatory environments to assess
potential effects on the Company's positions, including recent decisions in
relevant court cases. We analyzed the appropriateness of the Company's
assumptions and the accuracy of the Company's calculations and data used to
determine the amount of tax benefits to recognize. We evaluated the Company's
income tax disclosures in relation to these matters.  
  
  

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

  

We have served as the Company's auditor since 1996.

Seattle, Washington

February 2, 2023

35

* * *

Table of Contents

  

AMAZON.COM, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in millions)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, BEGINNING OF PERIOD| $| 36,410 |
| | $| 42,377 | | | $| 36,477 |  
OPERATING ACTIVITIES:| | | | |  
Net income (loss)| 21,331 | | | 33,364 | | | (2,722)|  
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash from operating
activities:| | | | |  
Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and capitalized
content costs, operating lease assets, and other| 25,180 | | | 34,433 | | |
41,921 |  
Stock-based compensation| 9,208 | | | 12,757 | | | 19,621 |  
| | | | |  
Other expense (income), net| (2,582)| | | (14,306)| | | 16,966 |  
Deferred income taxes| (554)| | | (310)| | | (8,148)|  
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:| | | | |  
Inventories| (2,849)| | | (9,487)| | | (2,592)|  
Accounts receivable, net and other| (8,169)| | | (18,163)| | | (21,897)|  
Accounts payable| 17,480 | | | 3,602 | | | 2,945 |  
Accrued expenses and other| 5,754 | | | 2,123 | | | (1,558)|  
Unearned revenue| 1,265 | | | 2,314 | | | 2,216 |  
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities| 66,064 | | | 46,327 | | |
46,752 |  
INVESTING ACTIVITIES:| | | | |  
Purchases of property and equipment| (40,140)| | | (61,053)| | | (63,645)|  
Proceeds from property and equipment sales and incentives| 5,096 | | | 5,657 |
| | 5,324 |  
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other| (2,325)| | | (1,985)| | |
(8,316)|  
Sales and maturities of marketable securities| 50,237 | | | 59,384 | | |
31,601 |  
Purchases of marketable securities| (72,479)| | | (60,157)| | | (2,565)|  
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities| (59,611)| | | (58,154)| |
| (37,601)|  
FINANCING ACTIVITIES:| | | | |  
Common stock repurchased| -- | | | -- | | | (6,000)|  
Proceeds from short-term debt, and other| 6,796 | | | 7,956 | | | 41,553 |  
Repayments of short-term debt, and other| (6,177)| | | (7,753)| | | (37,554)|  
Proceeds from long-term debt| 10,525 | | | 19,003 | | | 21,166 |  
Repayments of long-term debt| (1,553)| | | (1,590)| | | (1,258)|  
Principal repayments of finance leases| (10,642)| | | (11,163)| | | (7,941)|  
Principal repayments of financing obligations| (53)| | | (162)| | | (248)|  
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities| (1,104)| | | 6,291 | | |
9,718 |  
Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash| 618 |
| | (364)| | | (1,093)|  
Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash| 5,967
| | | (5,900)| | | 17,776 |  
CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, END OF PERIOD| $| 42,377 | | | $|
36,477 | | | $| 54,253 |  
  
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

36

* * *

Table of Contents

  

AMAZON.COM, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(in millions, except per share data)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
Net product sales| $| 215,915 | | | $| 241,787 | | | $| 242,901 |  
Net service sales| 170,149 | | | 228,035 | | | 271,082 |  
Total net sales| 386,064 | | | 469,822 | | | 513,983 |  
Operating expenses:| | | | |  
Cost of sales| 233,307 | | | 272,344 | | | 288,831 |  
Fulfillment| 58,517 | | | 75,111 | | | 84,299 |  
Technology and content| 42,740 | | | 56,052 | | | 73,213 |  
Sales and marketing| 22,008 | | | 32,551 | | | 42,238 |  
General and administrative| 6,668 | | | 8,823 | | | 11,891 |  
Other operating expense (income), net| (75)| | | 62 | | | 1,263 |  
Total operating expenses| 363,165 | | | 444,943 | | | 501,735 |  
Operating income| 22,899 | | | 24,879 | | | 12,248 |  
Interest income| 555 | | | 448 | | | 989 |  
Interest expense| (1,647)| | | (1,809)| | | (2,367)|  
Other income (expense), net| 2,371 | | | 14,633 | | | (16,806)|  
Total non-operating income (expense)| 1,279 | | | 13,272 | | | (18,184)|  
Income (loss) before income taxes| 24,178 | | | 38,151 | | | (5,936)|  
Benefit (provision) for income taxes| (2,863)| | | (4,791)| | | 3,217 |  
Equity-method investment activity, net of tax| 16 | | | 4 | | | (3)|  
Net income (loss)| $| 21,331 | | | $| 33,364 | | | $| (2,722)|  
Basic earnings per share| $| 2.13 | | | $| 3.30 | | | $| (0.27)|  
Diluted earnings per share| $| 2.09 | | | $| 3.24 | | | $| (0.27)|  
Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share:| | | | |  
Basic| 10,005 | | | 10,117 | | | 10,189 |  
Diluted| 10,198 | | | 10,296 | | | 10,189 |  
  
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

37

* * *

Table of Contents

  

AMAZON.COM, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

(in millions)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
Net income (loss)| $| 21,331 | | | $| 33,364 | | | $| (2,722)|  
Other comprehensive income (loss):| | | | |  
| | | | |  
  
Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $(36), $47, and $100

| 561 | | | (819)| | | (2,586)|  
| | | | |  
| | | | |  
Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt
securities:| | | | |  
  
Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $(83), $72, and $159

| 273 | | | (343)| | | (823)|  
  
Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in "Other income
(expense), net," net of tax of $8, $13, and $0

| (28)| | | (34)| | | 298 |  
Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities| 245 | | |
(377)| | | (525)|  
Total other comprehensive income (loss)| 806 | | | (1,196)| | | (3,111)|  
Comprehensive income (loss)| $| 22,137 | | | $| 32,168 | | | $| (5,833)|  
  
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

38

* * *

Table of Contents

  

AMAZON.COM, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in millions, except per share data)

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31,  
| 2021| | 2022  
ASSETS| | |  
Current assets:| | |  
Cash and cash equivalents| $| 36,220 | | | $| 53,888 |  
Marketable securities| 59,829 | | | 16,138 |  
Inventories| 32,640 | | | 34,405 |  
Accounts receivable, net and other| 32,891 | | | 42,360 |  
Total current assets| 161,580 | | | 146,791 |  
Property and equipment, net| 160,281 | | | 186,715 |  
Operating leases| 56,082 | | | 66,123 |  
Goodwill| 15,371 | | | 20,288 |  
Other assets| 27,235 | | | 42,758 |  
Total assets| $| 420,549 | | | $| 462,675 |  
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY| | |  
Current liabilities:| | |  
Accounts payable| $| 78,664 | | | $| 79,600 |  
Accrued expenses and other| 51,775 | | | 62,566 |  
Unearned revenue| 11,827 | | | 13,227 |  
Total current liabilities| 142,266 | | | 155,393 |  
Long-term lease liabilities| 67,651 | | | 72,968 |  
Long-term debt| 48,744 | | | 67,150 |  
Other long-term liabilities| 23,643 | | | 21,121 |  
Commitments and contingencies (Note 7)| | |  
Stockholders' equity:| | |  
  
Preferred stock ($0.01 par value; 500 shares authorized; no shares issued or
outstanding)

| -- | | | -- |  
  
Common stock ($0.01 par value; 100,000 shares authorized; 10,644 and 10,757
shares issued; 10,175 and 10,242 shares outstanding)

| 106 | | | 108 |  
Treasury stock, at cost| (1,837)| | | (7,837)|  
Additional paid-in capital| 55,437 | | | 75,066 |  
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)| (1,376)| | | (4,487)|  
Retained earnings| 85,915 | | | 83,193 |  
Total stockholders' equity| 138,245 | | | 146,043 |  
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity| $| 420,549 | | | $| 462,675 |  
  
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

39

* * *

Table of Contents

  

AMAZON.COM, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

(in millions)

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Common Stock| |  | |  | |  | |  
| Shares| | Amount| | Treasury  
Stock| | Additional  
Paid-In  
Capital| | Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)| | Retained  
Earnings| | Total  
Stockholders'  
Equity  
Balance as of January 1, 2020| 9,950 | | | $| 104 | | | $| (1,837)| | | $|
33,559 | | | $| (986)| | | $| 31,220 | | | $| 62,060 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Net income| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 21,331 | | | 21,331 |  
Other comprehensive income (loss)| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 806 | |
| -- | | | 806 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock| 116 | |
| 1 | | | -- | | | 9,206 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 9,207 |  
Balance as of December 31, 2020| 10,066 | | | 105 | | | (1,837)| | | 42,765 |
| | (180)| | | 52,551 | | | 93,404 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Net income| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | 33,364 | | | 33,364 |  
Other comprehensive income (loss)| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
(1,196)| | | -- | | | (1,196)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock| 109 | |
| 1 | | | -- | | | 12,672 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 12,673 |  
Balance as of December 31, 2021| 10,175 | | | 106 | | | (1,837)| | | 55,437 |
| | (1,376)| | | 85,915 | | | 138,245 |  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Net loss| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | (2,722)| | | (2,722)|  
Other comprehensive income (loss)| -- | | | -- | | | -- | | | -- | | |
(3,111)| | | -- | | | (3,111)|  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock| 113 | |
| 2 | | | -- | | | 19,629 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 19,631 |  
Common stock repurchased| (46)| | | -- | | | (6,000)| | | -- | | | -- | | | --
| | | (6,000)|  
Balance as of December 31, 2022| 10,242 | | | $| 108 | | | $| (7,837)| | | $|
75,066 | | | $| (4,487)| | | $| 83,193 | | | $| 146,043 |  
  
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

40

* * *

Table of Contents

  

AMAZON.COM, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 -- DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS, ACCOUNTING POLICIES, AND SUPPLEMENTAL
DISCLOSURES

Description of Business

We seek to be Earth's most customer-centric company. In each of our segments,
we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers,
developers, enterprises, content creators, advertisers, and employees. We
serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection,
price, and convenience. We offer programs that enable sellers to grow their
businesses, sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us,
and programs that allow authors, independent publishers, musicians,
filmmakers, Twitch streamers, skill and app developers, and others to publish
and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through
AWS, which offers a broad set of on-demand technology services, including
compute, storage, database, analytics, and machine learning, and other
services. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. In addition, we
provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and
others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video
advertising.

We have organized our operations into three segments: North America,
International, and AWS. See "Note 10 -- Segment Information."

Common Stock Split

On May 27, 2022, we effected a 20-for-1 stock split of our common stock and
proportionately increased the number of authorized shares of common stock. All
share, restricted stock unit ("RSU"), and per share or per RSU information
throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been retroactively adjusted to
reflect the stock split. The shares of common stock retain a par value of
$0.01 per share. Accordingly, an amount equal to the par value of the
increased shares resulting from the stock split was reclassified from
"Additional paid-in capital" to "Common stock."

Prior Period Reclassifications

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current
period presentation. "Other operating expense (income), net" was reclassified
into "Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and capitalized
content costs, operating lease assets, and other" on our consolidated
statements of cash flows.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc.
and its consolidated entities (collectively, the "Company"), consisting of its
wholly-owned subsidiaries and those entities in which we have a variable
interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain
entities in India and certain entities that support our seller lending
financing activities. Intercompany balances and transactions between
consolidated entities are eliminated.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent
liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
Estimates are used for, but not limited to, income taxes, useful lives of
equipment, commitments and contingencies, valuation of acquired intangibles
and goodwill, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, vendor funding,
inventory valuation, collectability of receivables, impairment of property and
equipment and operating leases, valuation and impairment of investments, self-
insurance liabilities, and viewing patterns of capitalized video content.
Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. We review the
useful lives of equipment on an ongoing basis, and effective January 1, 2022
we changed our estimate of the useful lives for our servers from four years to
five years and for our networking equipment from five years to six years. The
longer useful lives are due to continuous improvements in our hardware,
software, and data center designs. The effect of this change in estimate for
the year ended December 31, 2022, based on servers and networking equipment
that were included in "Property and equipment, net" as of December 31, 2021
and those acquired during the year ended December 31, 2022, was a reduction in
depreciation and amortization expense of $3.6 billion and a benefit to net
loss of $2.8 billion, or $0.28 per basic share and $0.28 per diluted share.

For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded approximately $1.1 billion,
of which $720 million was recorded in the fourth quarter, of impairments of
property and equipment and operating leases primarily related to physical
stores. These charges were recorded in "Other operating expense (income), net"
on our consolidated statements of operations and primarily impacted our North
America segment. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded
expenses of approximately

41

* * *

Table of Contents

  

$480 million primarily in "Fulfillment" on our consolidated statements of
operations relating to terminating contracts for certain leases not yet
commenced as well as other purchase commitments, which primarily impacted our
North America segment.

For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded approximately $720 million,
of which $640 million was recorded in the fourth quarter, of estimated
severance costs primarily related to planned role eliminations. These charges
were recorded primarily in "Technology and content," "Fulfillment," and
"General and administrative" on our consolidated statements of operations and
primarily impacted our North America segment.

Supplemental Cash Flow Information

The following table shows supplemental cash flow information (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION:| | | | |  
Cash paid for interest on debt| $| 916 | | | $| 1,098 | | | $| 1,561 |  
Cash paid for operating leases| $| 4,475 | | | $| 6,722 | | | $| 8,633 |  
Cash paid for interest on finance leases| $| 612 | | | $| 521 | | | $| 374 |  
Cash paid for interest on financing obligations| $| 102 | | | $| 153 | | | $|
207 |  
Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds| $| 1,713 | | | $| 3,688 | | | $|
6,035 |  
Assets acquired under operating leases| $| 16,217 | | | $| 25,369 | | | $|
18,800 |  
Property and equipment acquired under finance leases, net of remeasurements
and modifications| $| 11,588 | | | $| 7,061 | | | $| 675 |  
Property and equipment recognized during the construction period of build-to-
suit lease arrangements| $| 2,267 | | | $| 5,846 | | | $| 3,187 |  
Property and equipment derecognized after the construction period of build-to-
suit lease arrangements, with the associated leases recognized as operating|
$| -- | | | $| 230 | | | $| 5,158 |  
  
Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding
common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-
average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock
awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have
a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per
share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect.

The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share| 10,005 | | | 10,117 |
| | 10,189 |  
Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards| 193 | | | 179 | | | -- |  
Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share| 10,198 | | | 10,296
| | | 10,189 |  
  
Revenue

Revenue is measured based on the amount of consideration that we expect to
receive, reduced by estimates for return allowances, promotional discounts,
and rebates. Revenue also excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third
parties, including sales and indirect taxes. In arrangements where we have
multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each
performance obligation using the relative stand-alone selling price. We
generally determine stand-alone selling prices based on the prices charged to
customers or using expected cost plus a margin.

A description of our principal revenue generating activities is as follows:

Retail sales \- We offer consumer products through our online and physical
stores. Revenue is recognized when control of the goods is transferred to the
customer, which generally occurs upon our delivery to a third-party carrier
or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer.

Third-party seller services \- We offer programs that enable sellers to sell
their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us. We are not the
seller of record in these transactions. The commissions and any related
fulfillment and shipping fees we earn from these arrangements are recognized
when the services are rendered, which generally occurs upon delivery of the
related products to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon
delivery, to the customer.

42

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Subscription services \- Our subscription sales include fees associated with
Amazon Prime memberships and access to content including digital video,
audiobooks, digital music, e-books, and other non-AWS subscription services.
Prime memberships provide our customers with access to an evolving suite of
benefits that represent a single stand-ready obligation. Subscriptions are
paid for at the time of or in advance of delivering the services. Revenue from
such arrangements is recognized over the subscription period.

Advertising services \- We provide advertising services to sellers, vendors,
publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads,
display, and video advertising. Revenue is recognized as ads are delivered
based on the number of clicks or impressions.

AWS \- Our AWS arrangements include global sales of compute, storage,
database, and other services. Revenue is allocated to services using stand-
alone selling prices and is primarily recognized when the customer uses these
services, based on the quantity of services rendered, such as compute or
storage capacity delivered on-demand. Certain services, including compute and
database, are also offered as a fixed quantity over a specified term, for
which revenue is recognized ratably. Sales commissions we pay in connection
with contracts that exceed one year are capitalized and amortized over the
contract term.

Other \- Other revenue includes sales related to various other offerings, such
as certain licensing and distribution of video content and shipping services,
and our co-branded credit card agreements. Revenue is recognized when content
is licensed or distributed and as or when services are performed.

Return Allowances

Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using
historical experience. Liabilities for return allowances are included in
"Accrued expenses and other" and were $859 million, $1.0 billion, and $1.3
billion as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022. Additions to the allowance
were $3.5 billion, $5.1 billion, and $5.5 billion and deductions from the
allowance were $3.6 billion, $4.9 billion, and $5.2 billion in 2020, 2021, and
2022. Included in "Inventories" on our consolidated balance sheets are assets
totaling $852 million, $882 million, and $948 million as of December 31, 2020,
2021, and 2022, for the rights to recover products from customers associated
with our liabilities for return allowances.

Cost of Sales

Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products,
inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and
delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and
digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and
music. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in
our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our
customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those
associated with seller transactions, are classified in "Fulfillment" on our
consolidated statements of operations.

Vendor Agreements

We have agreements with our vendors to receive consideration primarily for
cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, incentives, and volume rebates. We
generally consider these amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of
the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or
services, and are recorded as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of
services, or cost of property and equipment. Volume rebates typically depend
on reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of
reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts.
When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the
rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold.

Fulfillment

Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and
staffing our North America and International segments' fulfillment centers,
physical stores, and customer service centers, including facilities and
equipment expenses, such as depreciation and amortization, and rent; costs
attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories;
picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment
processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our
guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from
customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic
devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that
assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations.

43

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Technology and Content

Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for
employees involved in the research and development of new and existing
products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores,
curation and display of products and services made available in our online
stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers,
networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization,
rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon
businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order
to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including
expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and
efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite
network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing
services. Technology and content costs are generally expensed as incurred.

Sales and Marketing

Sales and marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses
for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales
commissions related to AWS. We pay commissions to third parties when their
customer referrals result in sales. We also participate in cooperative
advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties.

Advertising and other promotional costs to market our products and services
are expensed as incurred and were $10.9 billion, $16.9 billion, and $20.6
billion in 2020, 2021, and 2022.

General and Administrative

General and administrative expenses primarily consist of costs for corporate
functions, including payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment
expenses, such as depreciation and amortization expense and rent; and
professional fees.

Stock-Based Compensation

Compensation cost for all equity-classified stock awards expected to vest is
measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service
period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the
number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value
is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated
forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock
awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual
results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts
will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are
revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures,
including historical forfeiture experience by grant year and employee level.
Additionally, stock-based compensation includes stock appreciation rights that
are expected to settle in cash. These liability-classified awards are
remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period until settlement
or expiration.

Other Operating Expense (Income), Net

Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily of the amortization
of intangible assets and, for 2020, a benefit from accelerated vesting of
warrants to acquire equity of a vendor partially offset by a lease impairment
and, for 2022, $1.1 billion of impairments of property and equipment and
operating leases.

Other Income (Expense), Net

Other income (expense), net, is as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
Marketable equity securities valuation gains (losses)| $| 525 | | | $| 11,526
| | | $| (13,870)|  
Equity warrant valuation gains (losses)| 1,527 | | | 1,315 | | | (2,132)|  
Upward adjustments relating to equity investments in private companies| 342 |
| | 1,866 | | | 76 |  
Foreign currency gains (losses)| 35 | | | (55)| | | (340)|  
Other, net| (58)| | | (19)| | | (540)|  
Total other income (expense), net| 2,371 | | | 14,633 | | | (16,806)|  
  
44

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Included in other income (expense), net in 2021 and 2022 is a marketable
equity securities valuation gain (loss) of $11.8 billion and $(12.7) billion
from our equity investment in Rivian Automotive, Inc. ("Rivian"). Our
investment in Rivian's preferred stock was accounted for at cost, with
adjustments for observable changes in prices or impairments, prior to Rivian's
initial public offering in November 2021, which resulted in the conversion of
our preferred stock to Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2022, we held
158 million shares of Rivian's Class A common stock, representing an
approximate 17% ownership interest, and an approximate 16% voting interest. We
determined that we have the ability to exercise significant influence over
Rivian through our equity investment, our commercial arrangement for the
purchase of electric vehicles, and one of our employees serving on Rivian's
board of directors. We elected the fair value option to account for our equity
investment in Rivian, which is included in "Marketable securities" on our
consolidated balance sheets.

Required summarized financial information of Rivian as disclosed in its most
recent SEC filings is as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  
December 31, 2020| | Year Ended  
December 31, 2021| | Nine Months Ended  
September 30, 2022  
Revenues| $| -- | | | $| 55 | | | $| 995 |  
Gross profit| -- | | | (465)| | | (2,123)|  
Loss from operations| (1,021)| | | (4,220)| | | (5,061)|  
Net loss| (1,018)| | | (4,688)| | | (5,029)|  
  
  

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31, 2021| | September 30, 2022  
Total current assets| $| 18,559 | | | $| 14,424 |  
Total assets| 22,294 | | | 19,023 |  
Total current liabilities| 1,313 | | | 2,109 |  
Total liabilities| 2,780 | | | 3,686 |  
| | |  
  
Income Taxes

Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes.
Certain foreign subsidiary earnings and losses are subject to current U.S.
taxation and the subsequent repatriation of those earnings is not subject to
tax in the U.S. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign
subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries,
indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would
incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts.

Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, as
well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and are stated at
enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or
recovered.

Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable
in future periods. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization
and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be
realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future
realization of our deferred tax assets, including recent cumulative loss
experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment
in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax
reporting purposes, and other relevant factors.

We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income
tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax
position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence
indicates it is more likely than not the position will be sustained on audit,
including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second
step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than
50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many
factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits,
which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast
actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax
contingencies in income tax expense.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair
value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation
methodologies used to measure fair value:

Level 1 -- Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and
liabilities in active markets.

45

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Level 2 -- Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices
included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities
in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and
liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are
observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.

Level 3 -- Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own
assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other
market participants. These valuations require significant judgment.

We measure the fair value of money market funds and certain marketable equity
securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities. Other marketable securities were valued either based on recent
trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of
similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated
by observable market data. We did not hold significant amounts of marketable
securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2021 and 2022.

We hold equity warrants giving us the right to acquire stock of other
companies. As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, these warrants had a fair value
of $3.4 billion and $2.1 billion, and are recorded within "Other assets" on
our consolidated balance sheets with gains and losses recognized in "Other
income (expense), net" on our consolidated statements of operations. These
warrants are primarily classified as Level 2 assets.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three
months or less as cash equivalents.

Inventories

Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily
accounted for using the first-in, first-out method, and are valued at the
lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make
judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method
of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to
product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each
disposition category. The inventory valuation allowance, representing a write-
down of inventory, was $2.6 billion and $2.8 billion as of December 31, 2021
and 2022.

We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our
sellers' programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory,
regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party
sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories.

We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and
use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our
products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage
manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, we enter into
agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic
device components. We have certain non-cancellable purchase commitments
arising from these agreements. These commitments are based on forecasted
customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional
costs. We also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products
offered in our Whole Foods Market stores.

Accounts Receivable, Net and Other

Included in "Accounts receivable, net and other" on our consolidated balance
sheets are amounts primarily related to customers, vendors, and sellers. As of
December 31, 2021 and 2022, customer receivables, net, were $20.2 billion and
$26.6 billion, vendor receivables, net, were $5.3 billion and $6.9 billion,
and seller receivables, net, were $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion. Seller
receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending
program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to procure inventory.

We estimate losses on receivables based on expected losses, including our
historical experience of actual losses. Receivables are considered impaired
and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not
be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for
doubtful accounts was $1.1 billion, $1.1 billion, and $1.4 billion as of
December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022. Additions to the allowance were $1.4
billion, $1.0 billion, and $1.6 billion, and deductions to the allowance were
$1.0 billion, $1.1 billion, and $1.3 billion in 2020, 2021, and 2022.

Software Development Costs

We incur software development costs related to products to be sold, leased, or
marketed to external users, internal-use software, and our websites. Software
development costs capitalized were not significant for the years presented.
All other costs, including those related to design or maintenance, are
expensed as incurred.

46

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Property and Equipment, Net

Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Incentives that we receive from property and equipment vendors
are recorded as a reduction to our costs. Property includes buildings and land
that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit lease
arrangements when we have control over the building during the construction
period and finance lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as
servers and networking equipment, heavy equipment, and other fulfillment
equipment. Depreciation and amortization is recorded on a straight-line basis
over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40
years or the remaining life of the underlying building, four years prior to
January 1, 2022 and five years subsequent to January 1, 2022 for our servers,
five years prior to January 1, 2022 and six years subsequent to January 1,
2022 for our networking equipment, ten years for heavy equipment, and three to
ten years for other fulfillment equipment). Depreciation and amortization
expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on
our consolidated statements of operations.

Leases

We categorize leases with contractual terms longer than twelve months as
either operating or finance. Finance leases are generally those leases that
allow us to substantially utilize or pay for the entire asset over its
estimated life. Assets acquired under finance leases are recorded in "Property
and equipment, net." All other leases are categorized as operating leases. Our
leases generally have terms that range from one to ten years for equipment and
one to twenty years for property.

Certain lease contracts include obligations to pay for other services, such as
operations and maintenance. For leases of property, we account for these other
services as a component of the lease. For substantially all other leases, the
services are accounted for separately and we allocate payments to the lease
and other services components based on estimated stand-alone prices.

Lease liabilities are recognized at the present value of the fixed lease
payments, reduced by landlord incentives using a discount rate based on
similarly secured borrowings available to us. Lease assets are recognized
based on the initial present value of the fixed lease payments, reduced by
landlord incentives, plus any direct costs from executing the leases or lease
prepayments reclassified from "Other assets" upon lease commencement.
Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser
of their expected useful life or the lease term.

When we have the option to extend the lease term, terminate the lease before
the contractual expiration date, or purchase the leased asset, and it is
reasonably certain that we will exercise the option, we consider the option in
determining the classification and measurement of the lease. Our leases may
include variable payments based on measures that include changes in price
indices, market interest rates, or the level of sales at a physical store,
which are expensed as incurred.

Costs associated with operating lease assets are recognized on a straight-line
basis within operating expenses over the term of the lease. Finance lease
assets are amortized within operating expenses on a straight-line basis over
the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or, in the instance
where title does not transfer at the end of the lease term, the lease term.
The interest component of a finance lease is included in interest expense and
recognized using the effective interest method over the lease term.

We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future
costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease.
Such assets are amortized over the lease period into operating expense, and
the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated
retirement costs.

Financing Obligations

We record assets and liabilities for estimated construction costs under build-
to-suit lease arrangements when we have control over the building during the
construction period. If we continue to control the building after the
construction period, the arrangement is classified as a financing obligation
instead of a lease. The building is depreciated over the shorter of its useful
life or the term of the obligation.

If we do not control the building after the construction period ends, the
assets and liabilities for construction costs are derecognized, and we
classify the lease as operating.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment
annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We may elect to utilize a
qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the
fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset is less
than its carrying value and if so, we perform a quantitative test. We compare
the carrying value of each reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible
asset to its estimated fair value and if the fair value is determined to be
less than the carrying value, we recognize an impairment loss for the
difference. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted
cash

47

* * *

Table of Contents

  

flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future
net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category
expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions.

We completed the required annual impairment test of goodwill for all reporting
units and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of April 1, 2022, resulting in
no impairments. The fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded
their carrying value. There were no events that caused us to update our annual
impairment test. See "Note 5 -- Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired
Intangible Assets."

Other Assets

Included in "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts
primarily related to video and music content, net of accumulated amortization;
long-term deferred tax assets; acquired intangible assets, net of accumulated
amortization; equity warrant assets and certain equity investments; and
satellite network launch services deposits. We recognize certain transactions
with governments when there is reasonable assurance that incentives included
in the agreements, such as cash or certain tax credits, will be received and
we are able to comply with any related conditions. These incentives are
recorded as reductions to the cost of related assets or expenses.

Digital Video and Music Content

We obtain video content, inclusive of episodic television and movies, and
music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide
range of licensing provisions including both fixed and variable payment
schedules. When the license fee for a specific video or music title is
determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available to us, we
recognize an asset and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We
reduce the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset to "Cost
of sales" on an accelerated basis, based on estimated usage or viewing
patterns, or on a straight-line basis. If the licensing fee is not
determinable or reasonably estimable, no asset or liability is recorded and
licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original video
content for which the production costs are capitalized and amortized to "Cost
of sales" predominantly on an accelerated basis that follows the estimated
viewing patterns associated with the content. The weighted average remaining
life of our capitalized video content is 2.6 years. We review usage and
viewing patterns impacting the amortization of capitalized video content on an
ongoing basis and reflect any changes prospectively. Changes in historical and
anticipated viewing patterns are lengthening the weighted average life of our
capitalized video content. We anticipate the changes in viewing patterns will
positively impact 2023 operating income by approximately $1.0 billion,
generally ratably throughout the year.

Our produced and licensed video content is primarily monetized together as a
unit, referred to as a film group, in each major geography where we offer
Amazon Prime memberships. These film groups are evaluated for impairment
whenever an event occurs or circumstances change indicating the fair value is
less than the carrying value. The total capitalized costs of video, which is
primarily released content, and music as of December 31, 2021 and 2022 were
$10.7 billion and $16.7 billion. Total video and music expense was $13.0
billion and $16.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2022. Total
video and music expense includes licensing and production costs associated
with content offered within Amazon Prime memberships, and costs associated
with digital subscriptions and sold or rented content.

Investments

We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and
investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Such
investments are included in "Cash and cash equivalents" or "Marketable
securities" on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Marketable fixed income securities are classified as available-for-sale and
reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in
"Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)." Each reporting period, we
evaluate whether declines in fair value below carrying value are due to
expected credit losses, as well as our ability and intent to hold the
investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Expected credit losses are
recorded as an allowance through "Other income (expense), net" on our
consolidated statements of operations.

Equity investments in private companies for which we do not have the ability
to exercise significant influence are accounted for at cost, with adjustments
for observable changes in prices or impairments, and are classified as "Other
assets" on our consolidated balance sheets with adjustments recognized in
"Other income (expense), net" on our consolidated statements of operations.
Each reporting period, we perform a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether
the investment is impaired. Our assessment includes a review of recent
operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee
securities, and other publicly available data. If the investment is impaired,
we write it down to its estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2021 and
2022, these investments had a carrying value of $603 million and $715 million.

Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, or
at fair value if we elect the fair value option, if the investment gives us
the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an
investee. Equity-method

48

* * *

Table of Contents

  

investments are included within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance
sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method
investees, amortization of basis differences, related gains or losses, and
impairments, if any, are recognized in "Equity-method investment activity, net
of tax" on our consolidated statements of operations. Each reporting period,
we evaluate whether declines in fair value below carrying value are other-
than-temporary and if so, we write down the investment to its estimated fair
value.

Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values, including
investments for which we have elected the fair value option, are included in
"Marketable securities" on our consolidated balance sheets and measured at
fair value with changes recognized in "Other income (expense), net" on our
consolidated statements of operations.

Long-Lived Assets

Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets,
are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable.
Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a
significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant
change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other
significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an
asset or group of assets may not be recoverable.

For long-lived assets used in operations, including lease assets, impairment
losses are only recorded if the asset's carrying amount is not recoverable
through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure
the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and
estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when
certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to
sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition,
and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held
for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell.
Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2021 and 2022.

Accrued Expenses and Other

Included in "Accrued expenses and other" on our consolidated balance sheets
are liabilities primarily related to leases and asset retirement obligations,
tax-related liabilities, current debt, payroll and related expenses,
unredeemed gift cards, self-insurance liabilities, customer liabilities,
marketing liabilities, acquired digital media content, and other operating
expenses.

As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, our liabilities for payroll related expenses
were $7.4 billion and $7.7 billion and our liabilities for unredeemed gift
cards were $5.2 billion and $5.4 billion. We reduce the liability for a gift
card when redeemed by a customer. The portion of gift cards that we do not
expect to be redeemed is recognized based on customer usage patterns.

Self-Insurance Liabilities

Although we maintain certain high-deductible, third-party insurance coverage
for catastrophic losses, we effectively self-insure for exposure primarily
related to workers' compensation, employee health care benefits, general and
product liability, and automobile liability, including liability resulting
from third-party transportation service providers. We estimate self-insurance
liabilities by considering historical claims experience, frequency and costs
of claims, projected claims development, inflation, and other actuarial
assumptions. Changes in the number or costs of claims, healthcare costs,
judgment and settlement amounts, associated legal expenses, and other factors
could cause actual results to differ materially from these estimates. As of
December 31, 2021 and 2022, our total self-insurance liabilities were $2.2
billion and $4.0 billion and are included in "Accrued expenses and other" on
our consolidated balance sheets. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we increased
our reserves for general, product, and automobile liabilities by $1.3 billion
primarily driven by changes in our estimates about the costs of asserted and
unasserted claims, which was primarily recorded in "Cost of sales" on our
consolidated statements of operations and impacted our North America segment.

Unearned Revenue

Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received or due in advance of
performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period.
Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of AWS services and Amazon
Prime memberships. Our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2021 was
$14.0 billion, of which $11.3 billion was recognized as revenue during the
year ended December 31, 2022 and our total unearned revenue as of December 31,
2022 was $16.1 billion. Included in "Other long-term liabilities" on our
consolidated balance sheets was $2.2 billion and $2.9 billion of unearned
revenue as of December 31, 2021 and 2022.

Additionally, we have performance obligations, primarily related to AWS,
associated with commitments in customer contracts for future services that
have not yet been recognized in our financial statements. For contracts with
original terms that exceed one year, those commitments not yet recognized were
$110.4 billion as of December 31, 2022. The weighted average remaining life of
our long-term contracts is 3.7 years. However, the amount and timing of
revenue recognition is largely driven by customer usage, which can extend
beyond the original contractual term.

49

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Other Long-Term Liabilities

Included in "Other long-term liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheets
are liabilities primarily related to financing obligations, asset retirement
obligations, unearned revenue, tax contingencies, digital video and music
content, and deferred tax liabilities.

Foreign Currency

We have internationally-focused stores for which the net sales generated, as
well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations,
are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our
subsidiaries that either operate or support these stores is generally the same
as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are
translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and
revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout
the period. Translation adjustments are included in "Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss)," a separate component of stockholders' equity.
Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated
in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are
included in "Other income (expense), net" on our consolidated statements of
operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of
intercompany balances, we recorded gains (losses) of $(118) million, $19
million, and $386 million in 2020, 2021, and 2022.

Note 2 -- FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, and Marketable Securities

As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash,
and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, AAA-rated money market
funds, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, other investment
grade securities, and marketable equity securities. Cash equivalents and
marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following table
summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted
cash, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring
basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31, 2021  
  
| Cost or  
Amortized  
Cost| | Gross  
Unrealized  
Gains| | Gross  
Unrealized  
Losses| | Total  
Estimated  
Fair Value  
Cash| $| 10,942 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $| 10,942 |  
Level 1 securities:| | | | | | |  
Money market funds| 20,312 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 20,312 |  
Equity securities (1)| | | | | | | 1,646 |  
Level 2 securities:| | | | | | |  
Foreign government and agency securities| 181 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 181 |  
U.S. government and agency securities| 4,316 | | | 9 | | | (25)| | | 4,300 |  
Corporate debt securities| 35,810 | | | 75 | | | (121)| | | 35,764 |  
Asset-backed securities| 6,763 | | | 7 | | | (32)| | | 6,738 |  
Other fixed income securities| 688 | | | 2 | | | (4)| | | 686 |  
Equity securities (1)(3)| | | | | | | 15,740 |  
| $| 79,012 | | | $| 93 | | | $| (182)| | | $| 96,309 |  
Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (2)| | | |
| | | (260)|  
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities| | | | | | | $| 96,049
|  
  
50

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31, 2022  
  
| Cost or  
Amortized  
Cost| | Gross  
Unrealized  
Gains| | Gross  
Unrealized  
Losses| | Total  
Estimated  
Fair Value  
Cash| $| 10,666 | | | $| -- | | | $| -- | | | $| 10,666 |  
Level 1 securities:| | | | | | |  
Money market funds| 27,899 | | | -- | | | -- | | | 27,899 |  
Equity securities (1)(3)| | | | | | | 3,709 |  
Level 2 securities:| | | | | | |  
Foreign government and agency securities| 537 | | | -- | | | (2)| | | 535 |  
U.S. government and agency securities| 2,301 | | | -- | | | (155)| | | 2,146 |  
Corporate debt securities| 23,111 | | | -- | | | (484)| | | 22,627 |  
Asset-backed securities| 2,721 | | | -- | | | (149)| | | 2,572 |  
Other fixed income securities| 249 | | | -- | | | (12)| | | 237 |  
| | | | | | |  
| $| 67,484 | | | $| -- | | | $| (802)| | | $| 70,391 |  
Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (2)| | | |
| | | (365)|  
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities| | | | | | | $| 70,026
|  
  
___________________

(1)The related unrealized gain (loss) recorded in "Other income (expense),
net" was $448 million, $11.6 billion, and $(13.6) billion for the years ended
December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022.

(2)We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable fixed income securities primarily as collateral
for real estate, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions,
debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. We classify cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable fixed income securities with use restrictions of
less than twelve months as "Accounts receivable, net and other" and of twelve
months or longer as non-current "Other assets" on our consolidated balance
sheets. See "Note 7 -- Commitments and Contingencies."

(3)Our equity investment in Rivian had a fair value of $15.6 billion and $2.9
billion as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The
investment was subject to regulatory sales restrictions resulting in a
discount for lack of marketability of approximately $800 million as of
December 31, 2021, which expired in Q1 2022.

The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales
of marketable fixed income securities (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
Realized gains| $| 92 | | | $| 85 | | | $| 43 |  
Realized losses| 56 | | | 38 | | | 341 |  
  
The following table summarizes the remaining contractual maturities of our
cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities as of December 31,
2022 (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Amortized  
Cost| | Estimated  
Fair Value  
Due within one year| $| 46,854 | | | $| 46,782 |  
Due after one year through five years| 7,622 | | | 7,047 |  
Due after five years through ten years| 602 | | | 565 |  
Due after ten years| 1,740 | | | 1,622 |  
Total| $| 56,818 | | | $| 56,016 |  
  
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers
may have certain prepayment conditions.

51

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Reconciliation

The following table provides a reconciliation of the amount of cash, cash
equivalents, and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance
sheets to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated
statements of cash flows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31, 2021| | December 31, 2022  
Cash and cash equivalents| $| 36,220 | | | $| 53,888 |  
Restricted cash included in accounts receivable, net and other| 242 | | | 358
|  
Restricted cash included in other assets| 15 | | | 7 |  
Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash shown in the consolidated
statements of cash flows| $| 36,477 | | | $| 54,253 |  
  
Note 3 -- PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31,  
| 2021| | 2022  
Gross property and equipment (1):| | |  
Land and buildings| $| 81,104 | | | $| 91,650 |  
Equipment| 128,683 | | | 157,458 |  
Other assets| 4,118 | | | 4,602 |  
Construction in progress| 24,895 | | | 30,020 |  
Gross property and equipment| 238,800 | | | 283,730 |  
Total accumulated depreciation and amortization (1)| 78,519 | | | 97,015 |  
Total property and equipment, net| $| 160,281 | | | $| 186,715 |  
  
__________________

(1)Includes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-
depreciated assets.

Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment was $16.2
billion, $22.9 billion, and $24.9 billion which includes amortization of
property and equipment acquired under finance leases of $8.5 billion, $9.9
billion, and $6.1 billion for 2020, 2021, and 2022.

52

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Note 4 -- LEASES

We have entered into non-cancellable operating and finance leases for
fulfillment, delivery, office, data center, physical store, and sortation
facilities as well as server and networking equipment, vehicles, and aircraft.
Gross assets acquired under finance leases, inclusive of those where title
transfers at the end of the lease, are recorded in "Property and equipment,
net" and were $72.2 billion and $68.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 and
2022. Accumulated amortization associated with finance leases was $43.4
billion and $45.2 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022.

Lease cost recognized in our consolidated statements of operations is
summarized as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
Operating lease cost| $| 5,019 | | | $| 7,199 | | | $| 8,847 |  
Finance lease cost:| | | | |  
Amortization of lease assets| 8,452 | | | 9,857 | | | 6,097 |  
Interest on lease liabilities| 617 | | | 473 | | | 361 |  
Finance lease cost| 9,069 | | | 10,330 | | | 6,458 |  
Variable lease cost| 1,238 | | | 1,556 | | | 1,852 |  
Total lease cost| $| 15,326 | | | $| 19,085 | | | $| 17,157 |  
  
Other information about lease amounts recognized in our consolidated financial
statements is as follows:

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31, 2021| | December 31, 2022  
| | |  
Weighted-average remaining lease term - operating leases| 11.3 years| | 11.6
years  
Weighted-average remaining lease term - finance leases| 8.1 years| | 10.3
years  
Weighted-average discount rate - operating leases| 2.2 | %| | 2.8 | %  
Weighted-average discount rate - finance leases| 2.0 | %| | 2.3 | %  
  
Our lease liabilities were as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31, 2021  
| Operating Leases| | Finance Leases| | Total  
| | | | |  
Gross lease liabilities| $| 66,269 | | | $| 25,866 | | | $| 92,135 |  
Less: imputed interest| (7,939)| | | (2,113)| | | (10,052)|  
Present value of lease liabilities| 58,330 | | | 23,753 | | | 82,083 |  
Less: current portion of lease liabilities| (6,349)| | | (8,083)| | |
(14,432)|  
Total long-term lease liabilities| $| 51,981 | | | $| 15,670 | | | $| 67,651 |  
  
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31, 2022  
| Operating Leases| | Finance Leases| | Total  
|  
Gross lease liabilities| $| 81,273 | | | $| 18,019 | | | $| 99,292 |  
Less: imputed interest| (12,233)| | | (2,236)| | | (14,469)|  
Present value of lease liabilities| 69,040 | | | 15,783 | | | 84,823 |  
Less: current portion of lease liabilities| (7,458)| | | (4,397)| | |
(11,855)|  
Total long-term lease liabilities| $| 61,582 | | | $| 11,386 | | | $| 72,968 |  
  
53

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Note 5 -- ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS

2020 Acquisition Activity

During 2020, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of
$1.2 billion, net of cash acquired, of which $1.1 billion was capitalized to
in-process research and development intangible assets ("IPR&D").

2021 Acquisition Activity

During 2021, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of
$496 million, net of cash acquired.

2022 Acquisition Activity

On March 17, 2022, we acquired MGM Holdings Inc., for cash consideration of
approximately $6.1 billion, net of cash acquired, to provide more digital
media content options for customers. We also assumed $2.5 billion of debt,
which we repaid immediately after closing. The acquired assets primarily
consist of $3.4 billion of video content and $4.9 billion of goodwill.

During 2022, we also acquired certain other companies for an aggregate
purchase price of $141 million, net of cash acquired.

Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of
the 2022 acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to
our consolidated results of operations. Acquisition-related costs were
expensed as incurred and were not significant.

Goodwill

The goodwill of the acquired companies is primarily related to expected
improvements in technology performance and functionality, as well as sales
growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together
with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition.
The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax
purposes. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2021 and 2022 by
segment (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| North  
America| | International| | AWS| | Consolidated  
Goodwill - January 1, 2021| $| 12,527 | | | $| 1,288 | | | $| 1,202 | | | $|
15,017 |  
New acquisitions | 230 | | | 60 | | | 76 | | | 366 |  
Other adjustments (1)| 1 | | | (21)| | | 8 | | | (12)|  
Goodwill - December 31, 2021| 12,758 | | | 1,327 | | | 1,286 | | | 15,371 |  
New acquisitions| 3,943 | | | 1,054 | | | -- | | | 4,997 |  
Other adjustments (1)| (80)| | | 30 | | | (30)| | | (80)|  
Goodwill - December 31, 2022| $| 16,621 | | | $| 2,411 | | | $| 1,256 | | | $|
20,288 |  
  
___________________

(1)Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates.

54

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Intangible Assets

Acquired identifiable intangible assets are valued primarily by using
discounted cash flows. These assets are included within "Other assets" on our
consolidated balance sheets and consist of the following (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31,| |  
| 2021| | 2022| |  
  
| Acquired  
Intangibles,  
Gross (1)| | Accumulated  
Amortization (1)| | Acquired  
Intangibles,  
Net| | Acquired  
Intangibles,  
Gross (1)| | Accumulated  
Amortization (1)| | Acquired  
Intangibles,  
Net| | Weighted  
Average Life  
Remaining  
Finite-lived intangible assets (2): | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
Marketing-related| $| 2,286 | | | $| (548)| | | $| 1,738 | | | $| 2,407 | | |
$| (601)| | | $| 1,806 | | | 18.6  
Contract-based| 2,327 | | | (565)| | | 1,762 | | | 3,661 | | | (813)| | |
2,848 | | | 12.8  
Technology- and content-based| 976 | | | (610)| | | 366 | | | 883 | | | (643)|
| | 240 | | | 3.2  
Customer-related| 197 | | | (103)| | | 94 | | | 184 | | | (128)| | | 56 | | |
2.2  
Total finite-lived intangible assets| $| 5,786 | | | $| (1,826)| | | $| 3,960
| | | $| 7,135 | | | $| (2,185)| | | $| 4,950 | | | 14.4  
| | | | | | | | | | | | |  
IPR&D and other (3)| $| 1,147 | | |  | | | $| 1,147 | | | $| 1,147 | | |  | |
| $| 1,147 | | |  
Total acquired intangibles | $| 6,933 | | | $| (1,826)| | | $| 5,107 | | | $|
8,282 | | | $| (2,185)| | | $| 6,097 | | |  
  
___________________

(1)Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized
intangibles.

(2)Finite-lived intangible assets, excluding acquired video content, have
estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years, and are being
amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line basis.

(3)Intangible assets acquired in a business combination that are in-process
and used in research and development activities are considered indefinite-
lived until the completion or abandonment of the research and development
efforts. Once the research and development efforts are completed, we determine
the useful life and begin amortizing the assets.

Amortization expense for acquired finite-lived intangibles was $509 million,
$512 million, and $604 million in 2020, 2021, and 2022. Expected future
amortization expense of acquired finite-lived intangible assets as of December
31, 2022 is as follows (in millions):

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Year Ended December 31,  
2023| $| 530 |  
2024| 456 |  
2025| 371 |  
2026| 324 |  
2027| 314 |  
Thereafter| 2,955 |  
| $| 4,950 |  
  
55

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Note 6 -- DEBT

As of December 31, 2022, we had $69.5 billion of unsecured senior notes
outstanding (the "Notes"), including $12.8 billion issued in April 2022 and
$8.3 billion issued in December 2022 for general corporate purposes, and $1.0
billion of borrowings under our secured revolving credit facility. Our total
long-term debt obligations are as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Maturities (1)| | Stated Interest Rates| | Effective Interest Rates| |
December 31, 2021| | December 31, 2022  
  
2012 Notes issuance of $3.0 billion

| 2022| | 2.50%| | 2.66%| | 1,250 | | | -- |  
  
2014 Notes issuance of $6.0 billion

| 2024 - 2044| |

3.80% - 4.95%

| |

3.90% - 5.12%

| | 4,000 | | | 4,000 |  
  
2017 Notes issuance of $17.0 billion

| 2023 - 2057| |

2.40% - 5.20%

| |

2.56% - 4.33%

| | 16,000 | | | 16,000 |  
  
2020 Notes issuance of $10.0 billion

| 2023 - 2060| |

0.40% - 2.70%

| |

0.56% - 2.77%

| | 10,000 | | | 10,000 |  
  
2021 Notes issuance of $18.5 billion

| 2023 - 2061| |

0.25% - 3.25%

| |

0.35% - 3.31%

| | 18,500 | | | 18,500 |  
  
April 2022 Notes issuance of $12.8 billion

| 2024 - 2062| |

2.73% - 4.10%

| |

2.83% - 4.15%

| | -- | | | 12,750 |  
  
December 2022 Notes issuance of $8.3 billion

| 2024 - 2032| |

4.55% - 4.70%

| |

4.61% - 4.83%

| | -- | | | 8,250 |  
Credit Facility| | | | | | | 803 | | | 1,042 |  
| | | | | | | | |  
Total face value of long-term debt| | | | | | | 50,553 | | | 70,542 |  
Unamortized discount and issuance costs, net| | | | | | | (318)| | | (393)|  
Less: current portion of long-term debt| | | | | | | (1,491)| | | (2,999)|  
Long-term debt| | | | | | | $| 48,744 | | | $| 67,150 |  
  
___________________

(1)The weighted-average remaining lives of the 2014, 2017, 2020, 2021, April
2022, and December 2022 Notes were 12.6, 14.2, 16.7, 13.3, 13.3, and 5.9 years
as of December 31, 2022. The combined weighted-average remaining life of the
Notes was 13.1 years as of December 31, 2022.

Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears. We may redeem the
Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified
redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the
Notes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $53.3 billion
and $61.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, which is based on quoted
prices for our debt as of those dates.

We have a $1.5 billion secured revolving credit facility with a lender that is
secured by certain seller receivables, which we increased from $1.0 billion to
$1.5 billion in August 2022 and we may from time to time increase in the
future subject to lender approval (the "Credit Facility"). The Credit Facility
is available until August 2025, bears interest based on the daily Secured
Overnight Financing Rate plus 1.25%, and has a commitment fee of up to 0.45%
on the undrawn portion. There were $803 million and $1.0 billion of borrowings
outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, which
had an interest rate of 1.5% and 5.6%, respectively. As of December 31, 2021
and 2022, we have pledged $918 million and $1.2 billion of our cash and seller
receivables as collateral for debt related to our Credit Facility. The
estimated fair value of the Credit Facility, which is based on Level 2 inputs,
approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2021 and 2022.

As of December 31, 2022, future principal payments for our total long-term
debt were as follows (in millions):

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Year Ended December 31,  
2023| $| 3,000 |  
2024| 8,500 |  
2025| 5,249 |  
2026| 3,543 |  
2027| 8,750 |  
Thereafter| 41,500 |  
| $| 70,542 |  
  
We have U.S. Dollar and Euro commercial paper programs (the "Commercial Paper
Programs") under which we may from time to time issue unsecured commercial
paper up to a total of $20.0 billion (including up to €3.0 billion) at the
date of issue, with individual maturities that may vary but will not exceed
397 days from the date of issue. In March 2022, we increased the size of the
Commercial Paper Programs from $10.0 billion to $20.0 billion. There were $725
million and $6.8 billion of borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper
Programs as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, which were

56

* * *

Table of Contents

  

included in "Accrued expenses and other" on our consolidated balance sheets
and had a weighted-average effective interest rate, including issuance costs,
of 0.08% and 4.47%, respectively. We use the net proceeds from the issuance of
commercial paper for general corporate purposes.

We have a $10.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate
of lenders (the "Credit Agreement"), which was amended and restated in March
2022 to increase the borrowing capacity from $7.0 billion to $10.0 billion and
to extend the term to March 2025. It may be extended for up to three
additional one-year terms if approved by the lenders. The interest rate
applicable to outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement is the
applicable benchmark rate specified in the Credit Agreement plus 0.45%, with a
commitment fee of 0.03% on the undrawn portion of the credit facility. There
were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement as of December 31,
2021 and 2022.

In November 2022, we entered into a $10.0 billion unsecured 364-day revolving
credit facility with a syndicate of lenders (the "Short-Term Credit
Agreement"), which matures in November 2023 and may be extended for one
additional period of 364 days if approved by the lenders. The interest rate
applicable to outstanding balances under the Short-Term Credit Agreement is
the Secured Overnight Financing Rate specified in the Short-Term Credit
Agreement plus 0.45%, with a commitment fee of 0.05% on the undrawn portion.
There were no borrowings outstanding under the Short-Term Credit Agreement as
of December 31, 2022.

We also utilize other short-term credit facilities for working capital
purposes. There were $318 million and $1.2 billion of borrowings outstanding
under these facilities as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, which were included
in "Accrued expenses and other" on our consolidated balance sheets. In
addition, we had $6.9 billion of unused letters of credit as of December 31,
2022.

In January 2023, we entered into an $8.0 billion unsecured 364-day term loan
with a syndicate of lenders (the "Term Loan"), which matures in January 2024
and bears interest at the Secured Overnight Financing Rate specified in the
Term Loan plus 0.75%. If we exercise our option to extend the Term Loan's
maturity to January 2025, the interest rate spread will increase from 0.75% to
1.05%. As of the date of this filing, the entire Term Loan is outstanding.

57

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Note 7 -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Commitments

The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open
orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally
cancellable, as of December 31, 2022 (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,| |  | |  
| 2023| | 2024| | 2025| | 2026| | 2027| | Thereafter| | Total  
Long-term debt principal and interest| $| 5,165 | | | $| 10,618 | | | $| 7,146
| | | $| 5,253 | | | $| 10,399 | | | $| 63,815 | | | $| 102,396 |  
Operating lease liabilities| 9,574 | | | 8,658 | | | 8,024 | | | 7,393 | | |
6,675 | | | 40,949 | | | 81,273 |  
Finance lease liabilities, including interest| 4,575 | | | 2,248 | | | 1,422 |
| | 1,279 | | | 1,088 | | | 7,407 | | | 18,019 |  
Financing obligations, including interest (1)| 465 | | | 464 | | | 456 | | |
464 | | | 471 | | | 6,712 | | | 9,032 |  
Leases not yet commenced| 1,252 | | | 2,043 | | | 2,185 | | | 2,160 | | |
2,152 | | | 17,237 | | | 27,029 |  
Unconditional purchase obligations (2)| 8,156 | | | 7,217 | | | 5,366 | | |
4,525 | | | 3,419 | | | 6,093 | | | 34,776 |  
Other commitments (3)(4)| 3,173 | | | 1,608 | | | 1,027 | | | 982 | | | 622 |
| | 8,652 | | | 16,064 |  
Total commitments| $| 32,360 | | | $| 32,856 | | | $| 25,626 | | | $| 22,056 |
| | $| 24,826 | | | $| 150,865 | | | $| 288,589 |  
  
___________________

(1)Includes non-cancellable financing obligations for fulfillment, sortation,
and data center facilities. Excluding interest, current financing obligations
of $196 million and $266 million are recorded within "Accrued expenses and
other" and $6.2 billion and $6.7 billion are recorded within "Other long-term
liabilities" as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. The weighted-average remaining
term of the financing obligations was 18.8 years and 17.9 years and the
weighted-average imputed interest rate was 3.2% and 3.1% as of December 31,
2021 and 2022.

(2)Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to long-term agreements
to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the
consolidated balance sheets and certain products offered in our Whole Foods
Market stores. For those digital media content agreements with variable terms,
we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or
pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal
provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the
extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified.

(3)Includes asset retirement obligations, liabilities associated with digital
media content agreements with initial terms greater than one year, and the
estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements
associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements that are under construction.

(4)Excludes approximately $4.0 billion of accrued tax contingencies for which
we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of
payment, if any.

In July 2022, we entered into an agreement to acquire 1Life Healthcare, Inc.
(One Medical) for approximately $3.9 billion, including its debt, subject to
customary closing conditions. In August 2022, we entered into an agreement to
acquire iRobot Corporation for approximately $1.7 billion, including its debt,
subject to customary closing conditions. We expect to fund these acquisitions
with cash on hand.

Suppliers

During 2022, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We
generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to
guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the
extension of credit limits.

Other Contingencies

We are disputing claims and denials of refunds or credits related to various
non-income taxes (such as sales, value added, consumption, service, and
similar taxes), including in jurisdictions in which we already collect and
remit these taxes. These non-income tax controversies typically relate to (i)
the taxability of products and services, including cross-border intercompany
transactions, (ii) collection and withholding on transactions with third
parties, and (iii) the adequacy of compliance with reporting obligations,
including evolving documentation requirements. Due to the inherent complexity
and uncertainty of these matters and the judicial and regulatory processes in
certain jurisdictions, the final outcome of any such controversies may be
materially different from our expectations.

58

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Legal Proceedings

The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings, and
litigation, including the following:

In November 2015, Eolas Technologies, Inc. filed a complaint against
Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of
"interactive features" on www.amazon.com, including "search suggestions and
search results," infringes U.S. Patent No. 9,195,507, entitled "Distributed
Hypermedia Method and System for Automatically Invoking External Application
Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects Within a Hypermedia
Document." The complaint sought a judgment of infringement together with costs
and attorneys' fees. In February 2016, Eolas filed an amended complaint
seeking, among other things, an unspecified amount of damages. In February
2017, Eolas alleged in its damages report that in the event of a finding of
liability Amazon could be subject to $130 to $250 million in damages. In April
2017, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California. In May 2022, the district court granted
summary judgment holding that the patent is invalid. In June 2022, Eolas filed
a notice of appeal. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to
defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.

In May 2018, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and CF Dynamic Advances LLC
filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of New York. The complaint alleges, among other
things, that "Alexa Voice Software and Alexa enabled devices" infringe U.S.
Patent No. 7,177,798, entitled "Natural Language Interface Using Constrained
Intermediate Dictionary of Results." The complaint seeks an injunction, an
unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, an ongoing royalty, interest,
attorneys' fees, and costs. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and
intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.

In December 2018, Kove IO, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon Web Services,
Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon S3 and
DynamoDB infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 7,814,170 and 7,103,640, both entitled
"Network Distributed Tracking Wire Transfer Protocol"; and 7,233,978, entitled
"Method and Apparatus for Managing Location Information in a Network Separate
from the Data to Which the Location Information Pertains." The complaint seeks
an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys' fees, costs,
interest, and injunctive relief. In March 2022, the case was stayed pending
resolution of review petitions we filed with the United States Patent and
Trademark Office. In November 2022, the stay was lifted. We dispute the
allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this
matter.

Beginning in March 2020, with Frame-Wilson v. Amazon.com, Inc. filed in the
United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, private
litigants have filed a number of cases in the U.S. and Canada alleging, among
other things, price fixing arrangements between Amazon.com, Inc. and vendors
and third-party sellers in Amazon's stores, monopolization and attempted
monopolization, and consumer protection and unjust enrichment claims.
Attorneys General for the District of Columbia and California brought similar
suits in May 2021 and September 2022 in the Superior Court of the District of
Columbia and the California Superior Court for the County of San Francisco,
respectively. Some of the private cases include allegations of several
distinct purported classes, including consumers who purchased a product
through Amazon's stores and consumers who purchased a product offered by
Amazon through another e-commerce retailer. The complaints seek billions of
dollars of alleged actual damages, treble damages, punitive damages,
injunctive relief, civil penalties, attorneys' fees, and costs. In March 2022
and January 2023, Amazon's motions to dismiss were granted in part and denied
in part in Frame-Wilson and De Coster v. Amazon.com, Inc. (WD Wash),
respectively; both courts dismissed claims alleging that Amazon's pricing
policies are inherently illegal and denied dismissal of claims alleging that
Amazon's pricing policies are an unlawful restraint of trade. In March 2022,
the DC Superior Court dismissed the DC Attorney General's lawsuit in its
entirety; the dismissal is under appeal as of January 2023. We dispute the
allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these
matters.

In October 2020, BroadbandiTV, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com,
Inc., Amazon.com Services LLC, and Amazon Web Services, Inc. in the United
States District Court for the Western District of Texas. The complaint
alleges, among other things, that certain Amazon Prime Video features and
services infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 9,648,388, 10,546,750, and 10,536,751, each
entitled "Video-On-Demand Content Delivery System for Providing Video-On-
Demand Services to TV Services Subscribers"; 10,028,026, entitled "System for
Addressing On-Demand TV Program Content on TV Services Platform of a Digital
TV Services Provider"; and 9,973,825, entitled "Dynamic Adjustment of
Electronic Program Guide Displays Based on Viewer Preferences for Minimizing
Navigation in VOD Program Selection." The complaint seeks an unspecified
amount of damages. In April 2022, BroadbandiTV alleged in its damages report
that, in the event of a finding of liability, Amazon could be subject to $166
to $986 million in damages. In September 2022, the court granted summary
judgment, holding that the patents are invalid. In October 2022, BroadbandiTV
filed a notice of appeal. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and will
continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.

59

* * *

Table of Contents

  

In November 2020, the European Commission issued a Statement of Objections
alleging that Amazon uses data relating to our marketplace sellers in a manner
that infringes EU competition rules. The Statement of Objections sought to
impose unspecified fines and remedial actions. In December 2022, the European
Commission adopted formal commitments without fines, fully resolving the
investigation.

In July 2021, the Luxembourg National Commission for Data Protection (the
"CNPD") issued a decision against Amazon Europe Core S.a r.l. claiming that
Amazon's processing of personal data did not comply with the EU General Data
Protection Regulation. The decision imposes a fine of €746 million and
corresponding practice revisions. We believe the CNPD's decision to be without
merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.

In November 2021, Jawbone Innovations, LLC filed a complaint against
Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon.com Services, Inc. in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other
things, that Amazon Echo smart speakers and displays, Fire TV Cube, and Echo
Buds infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 7,246,058, entitled "Detecting Voiced and
Unvoiced Speech Using Both Acoustic and Nonacoustic Sensors"; 8,019,091,
entitled "Voice Activity Detector (VAD)-Based Multiple-Microphone Acoustic
Noise Suppression"; 8,280,072, entitled "Microphone Array with Rear Venting";
8,321,213 and 8,326,611, both entitled "Acoustic Voice Activity Detection
(AVAD) for Electronic Systems"; 8,467,543, entitled "Microphone and Voice
Activity Detection (VAD) Configurations for Use with Communications Systems";
8,503,691, entitled "Virtual Microphone Arrays Using Dual Omnidirectional
Microphone Array (DOMA)"; 10,779,080, entitled "Dual Omnidirectional
Microphone Array (DOMA)"; and 11,122,357, entitled "Forming Virtual Microphone
Arrays Using Dual Omnidirectional Microphone Array (DOMA)." The complaint
seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys' fees,
costs, interest, and injunctive relief. In November 2022, the case was
transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of
California. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend
ourselves vigorously in this matter.

In December 2021, the Italian Competition Authority (the "ICA") issued a
decision against Amazon Services Europe S.a r.l., Amazon Europe Core S.a r.l.,
Amazon EU S.a r.l., Amazon Italia Services S.r.l., and Amazon Italia Logistica
S.r.l. claiming that certain of our marketplace and logistics practices in
Italy infringe EU competition rules. The decision imposes remedial actions and
a fine of €1.13 billion, which we are paying and will seek to recover pending
conclusion of all appeals. We believe the ICA's decision to be without merit
and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.

In July 2022, Acceleration Bay, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon Web
Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of
Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon EC2, Amazon
CloudFront, AWS Lambda, Amazon Lumberyard, Luna, Amazon Prime Video, Twitch,
Amazon GameLift, GridMate, Amazon EKS, AWS App Mesh, and Amazon VPC infringe
U.S. Patent Nos. 6,701,344, entitled "Distributed Game Environment";
6,714,966, entitled "Information Delivery Service"; 6,732,147, entitled
"Leaving a Broadcast Channel"; 6,829,634, entitled "Broadcasting Network"; and
6,910,069, entitled "Joining a Broadcast Channel." The complaint seeks
injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages,
interest, attorneys' fees, and costs. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing
and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.

In November 2022, LightGuide, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc.
and Amazon.com Services LLC in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that
Amazon's Nike Intent Detection System used in certain fulfillment centers
infringes U.S. Patent Nos. 7,515,981, entitled "Light Guided Assembly System";
and 9,658,614 and 10,528,036, each entitled "Light Guided Assembly System and
Method." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced
damages, attorneys' fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. We dispute
the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in
this matter.

In addition, we are regularly subject to claims, litigation, and other
proceedings, including potential regulatory proceedings, involving patent and
other intellectual property matters, taxes, labor and employment, competition
and antitrust, privacy and data protection, consumer protection, commercial
disputes, goods and services offered by us and by third parties, and other
matters.

The outcomes of our legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently
unpredictable, subject to significant uncertainties, and could be material to
our operating results and cash flows for a particular period. We evaluate, on
a regular basis, developments in our legal proceedings and other contingencies
that could affect the amount of liability, including amounts in excess of any
previous accruals and reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make
adjustments and changes to our accruals and disclosures as appropriate. For
the matters we disclose that do not include an estimate of the amount of loss
or range of losses, such an estimate is not possible or is immaterial, and we
may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could
potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies. Until the
final resolution of such matters, if any of our estimates and assumptions
change or prove to have been incorrect, we may experience losses in excess of
the amounts recorded, which could have a material effect on our business,
consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

See also "Note 9 -- Income Taxes."

60

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Note 8 -- STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Preferred Stock

We have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value preferred stock. No
preferred stock was outstanding for any year presented.

Common Stock

Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards
totaled 10.4 billion, 10.5 billion, and 10.6 billion, as of December 31, 2020,
2021, and 2022. These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards
outstanding, including those awards we estimate will be forfeited.

Stock Repurchase Activity

In March 2022, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to
$10.0 billion of our common stock, with no fixed expiration, which replaced
the previous $5.0 billion stock repurchase authorization, approved by the
Board of Directors in February 2016. We repurchased 46.2 million shares of our
common stock for $6.0 billion in 2022 under these programs. There were no
repurchases of common stock in 2020 or 2021. As of December 31, 2022, we have
$6.1 billion remaining under the repurchase program.

Stock Award Plans

Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards over the corresponding service
term, generally between two and five years.

Stock Award Activity

Stock-based compensation expense is as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
Cost of sales| $| 283 | | | $| 540 | | | $| 757 |  
Fulfillment| 1,357 | | | 1,946 | | | 2,745 |  
Technology and content| 5,061 | | | 6,645 | | | 10,621 |  
Sales and marketing| 1,710 | | | 2,530 | | | 3,875 |  
General and administrative| 797 | | | 1,096 | | | 1,623 |  
Total stock-based compensation expense (1)| $| 9,208 | | | $| 12,757 | | | $|
19,621 |  
  
___________________

(1)The related tax benefits were $1.9 billion, $2.7 billion, and $4.3 billion
for 2020, 2021, and 2022.

The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in
millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Number of Units| | Weighted Average  
Grant-Date  
Fair Value  
Outstanding as of January 1, 2020| 286.7 | | | $| 73 |  
Units granted| 158.6 | | | 119 |  
Units vested| (115.5)| | | 62 |  
Units forfeited| (26.5)| | | 82 |  
Outstanding as of December 31, 2020| 303.3 | | | 100 |  
Units granted| 127.3 | | | 167 |  
Units vested| (108.4)| | | 85 |  
Units forfeited| (42.3)| | | 116 |  
Outstanding as of December 31, 2021| 279.9 | | | 134 |  
Units granted| 262.8 | | | 142 |  
Units vested| (113.3)| | | 114 |  
Units forfeited| (45.0)| | | 143 |  
Outstanding as of December 31, 2022| 384.4 | | | 144 |  
  
61

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31,
2022, is as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended  | |  | |  
| 2023| | 2024| | 2025| | 2026| | 2027| | Thereafter| | Total  
Scheduled vesting -- restricted stock units| 140.8 | | | 136.6 | | | 67.3 | |
| 35.8 | | | 1.7 | | | 2.2 | | | 384.4 |  
  
As of December 31, 2022, there was $23.8 billion of net unrecognized
compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements.
This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis with more than half of
the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a
remaining weighted-average recognition period of 1.1 years. The estimated
forfeiture rate as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022 was 26.7%, 26.5%, and
26.5%. Changes in our estimates and assumptions relating to forfeitures may
cause us to realize material changes in stock-based compensation expense in
the future.

During 2020, 2021, and 2022, the fair value of restricted stock units that
vested was $15.5 billion, $18.2 billion, and $12.8 billion.

Common Stock Available for Future Issuance

As of December 31, 2022, common stock available for future issuance to
employees is 1.7 billion shares.

Note 9 -- INCOME TAXES

In 2020, 2021, and 2022, we recorded net tax provision (benefit) of $2.9
billion, $4.8 billion, and $(3.2) billion. Our U.S. taxable income is reduced
by accelerated depreciation deductions and increased by the impact of
capitalized research and development expenses. Cash taxes paid, net of
refunds, were $1.7 billion, $3.7 billion, and $6.0 billion for 2020, 2021, and
2022.

Certain foreign subsidiary earnings and losses are subject to current U.S.
taxation and the subsequent repatriation of those earnings is not subject to
tax in the U.S. The U.S. tax rules also provide for enhanced accelerated
depreciation deductions by allowing the election of full expensing of
qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Our federal tax
provision included a partial election for 2020 and 2021, and a full election
for 2022. Effective January 1, 2022, research and development expenses are
required to be capitalized and amortized for U.S. tax purposes.

The components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes, net are as follows
(in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
U.S. Federal:| | | | |  
Current| $| 1,835 | | | $| 2,129 | | | $| 2,175 |  
Deferred| (151)| | | 155 | | | (6,686)|  
Total| 1,684 | | | 2,284 | | | (4,511)|  
U.S. State:| | | | |  
Current| 626 | | | 763 | | | 1,074 |  
Deferred| (190)| | | (178)| | | (1,302)|  
Total| 436 | | | 585 | | | (228)|  
International:| | | | |  
Current| 956 | | | 2,209 | | | 1,682 |  
Deferred| (213)| | | (287)| | | (160)|  
Total| 743 | | | 1,922 | | | 1,522 |  
Provision (benefit) for income taxes, net| $| 2,863 | | | $| 4,791 | | | $|
(3,217)|  
  
U.S. and international components of income (loss) before income taxes are as
follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
U.S.| $| 20,219 | | | $| 35,879 | | | $| (8,225)|  
International| 3,959 | | | 2,272 | | | 2,289 |  
Income (loss) before income taxes| $| 24,178 | | | $| 38,151 | | | $| (5,936)|  
  
62

* * *

Table of Contents

  

The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the
federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as
follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
Income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate| $| 5,078 | | | $| 8,012 |
| | $| (1,246)|  
Effect of:| | | | |  
Tax impact of foreign earnings and losses| (538)| | | (1,349)| | | (370)|  
State taxes, net of federal benefits| 343 | | | 465 | | | (173)|  
Tax credits| (639)| | | (1,136)| | | (1,006)|  
Stock-based compensation (1)| (1,107)| | | (1,094)| | | 612 |  
Foreign income deduction (2)| (372)| | | (301)| | | (1,258)|  
Other, net| 98 | | | 194 | | | 224 |  
Total| $| 2,863 | | | $| 4,791 | | | $| (3,217)|  
  
___________________

(1)Includes non-deductible stock-based compensation and excess tax benefits or
shortfalls from stock-based compensation. Our tax provision includes $1.8
billion and $1.9 billion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation
for 2020 and 2021, and a $33 million tax shortfall from stock-based
compensation for 2022.

(2)U.S. companies are eligible for a deduction that lowers the effective tax
rate on certain foreign income. This regime is referred to as the Foreign-
Derived Intangible Income deduction.

Our provision for income taxes in 2021 was higher than in 2020 primarily due
to an increase in pretax income. This was partially offset by an increase in
U.S. federal research and development credits and the impact of the
distribution of certain intangible assets from Luxembourg to the U.S. in Q4
2021, resulting in the utilization of $2.6 billion of Luxembourg deferred tax
assets previously subject to a valuation allowance.

We generated an income tax benefit in 2022 as compared to a provision for
income taxes in 2021 primarily due to a decrease in pretax income and an
increase in the foreign income deduction. This was partially offset by a
reduction in excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and a decrease
in the tax impact of foreign earnings and losses driven by a decline in the
favorable effects of corporate restructuring transactions. The foreign income
deduction benefit recognized in 2022 reflects a change in our application of
tax regulations related to the computation of qualifying foreign income and
includes an income tax benefit of approximately $655 million related to years
prior to 2022.

We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as
well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the
U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional
costs upon repatriation of such amounts.

63

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31,  
| 2021| | 2022  
Deferred tax assets (1):| | |  
Loss carryforwards U.S. - Federal/States| 228 | | | 386 |  
Loss carryforwards - Foreign| 2,417 | | | 2,831 |  
Accrued liabilities, reserves, and other expenses| 2,821 | | | 3,280 |  
Stock-based compensation| 2,738 | | | 4,295 |  
Depreciation and amortization| 941 | | | 1,009 |  
Operating lease liabilities| 15,399 | | | 18,285 |  
Capitalized research and development| -- | | | 6,824 |  
Other items| 603 | | | 1,023 |  
Tax credits| 626 | | | 950 |  
Total gross deferred tax assets| 25,773 | | | 38,883 |  
Less valuation allowances (2)| (3,596)| | | (4,374)|  
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances| 22,177 | | | 34,509 |  
Deferred tax liabilities:| | |  
Depreciation and amortization| (3,562)| | | (9,039)|  
Operating lease assets| (14,422)| | | (17,140)|  
Assets held for investment| (4,019)| | | -- |  
Other items| (668)| | | (817)|  
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities), net of valuation allowances| $| (494)|
| | $| 7,513 |  
  
___________________

(1)Deferred tax assets are presented after tax effects and net of tax
contingencies.

(2)Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon
the generation of net income in certain foreign taxing jurisdictions or future
capital gains, as well as tax credits.

Our valuation allowances primarily relate to foreign deferred tax assets,
including substantially all of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards as
of December 31, 2022. Our foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income
tax purposes as of December 31, 2022 were approximately $10.4 billion before
tax effects and certain of these amounts are subject to annual limitations
under applicable tax law. If not utilized, a portion of these losses will
begin to expire in 2023.

Tax Contingencies

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous
foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax
positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary
course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the
ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related
uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which,
additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe
that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax
return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of
changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The
provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and
changes to reserves that are considered appropriate.

64

* * *

Table of Contents

  

The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
Gross tax contingencies - January 1| $| 3,923 | | | $| 2,820 | | | $| 3,242 |  
Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods| 88 | | | 403 | | | 274 |  
Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods| (465)| | | (354)| | |
(172)|  
Gross increases to current period tax positions| 507 | | | 507 | | | 706 |  
Settlements with tax authorities| (1,207)| | | (60)| | | (20)|  
Lapse of statute of limitations| (26)| | | (74)| | | (28)|  
Gross tax contingencies - December 31 (1)| $| 2,820 | | | $| 3,242 | | | $|
4,002 |  
  
___________________

(1)As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $4.0 billion of accrued tax
contingencies of which $2.2 billion, if fully recognized, would decrease our
effective tax rate.

As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, we had accrued interest and penalties, net
of federal income tax benefit, related to tax contingencies of $110 million
and $103 million. Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit,
recognized for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022 were $(48)
million, $28 million, and $(7) million.

We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal
Revenue Service for the calendar year 2016 and thereafter. These examinations
may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes
or our net operating losses with respect to years under examination as well as
subsequent periods.

We are also subject to taxation in various states and other foreign
jurisdictions including China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Luxembourg, and
the United Kingdom. We are under, or may be subject to, audit or examination
and additional assessments by the relevant authorities in respect of these
particular jurisdictions primarily for 2011 and thereafter. We are currently
disputing tax assessments in multiple jurisdictions, including with respect to
the allocation and characterization of income.

In September 2022, the Luxembourg Tax Authority ("LTA") denied the tax basis
of certain intangible assets that we distributed from Luxembourg to the U.S.
in 2021. We believe the LTA's position is without merit and intend to defend
ourselves vigorously in this matter.

In February 2023, we received a decision by the Indian Tax Authority ("ITA")
that tax applies to cloud services fees paid to the U.S. We will need to remit
taxes on the services in question, including for a portion of prior years,
until this matter is resolved, which payments could be significant in the
aggregate. We believe the ITA's decision is without merit, we intend to defend
our position vigorously, and we expect to recoup taxes paid. If this matter is
adversely resolved, we would reflect significant additional tax expense,
including for taxes previously paid.

In October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to
examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to
the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with
European Union rules on state aid. On October 4, 2017, the European Commission
announced its decision that determinations by the tax authorities in
Luxembourg did not comply with European Union rules on state aid. Based on
that decision the European Commission announced an estimated recovery amount
of approximately €250 million, plus interest, for the period May 2006 through
June 2014, and ordered Luxembourg tax authorities to calculate the actual
amount of additional taxes subject to recovery. Luxembourg computed an initial
recovery amount, consistent with the European Commission's decision, which we
deposited into escrow in March 2018, subject to adjustment pending conclusion
of all appeals. In December 2017, Luxembourg appealed the European
Commission's decision. In May 2018, we appealed. On May 12, 2021, the European
Union General Court annulled the European Commission's state aid decision. In
July 2021, the European Commission appealed the decision to the European Court
of Justice. We will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.

Changes in tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and
interpretations may impact our tax contingencies. Due to various factors,
including the inherent complexities and uncertainties of the judicial,
administrative, and regulatory processes in certain jurisdictions, the timing
of the resolution of income tax controversies is highly uncertain, and the
amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the
taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably
possible that within the next twelve months we will receive additional
assessments by various tax authorities or possibly reach resolution of income
tax controversies in one or more jurisdictions. These assessments or
settlements could result in changes to our contingencies related to positions
on prior years' tax filings. The actual amount of any change could vary
significantly depending on the ultimate timing and nature of any settlements.
We cannot currently provide an estimate of the range of possible outcomes.

65

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Note 10 -- SEGMENT INFORMATION

We have organized our operations into three segments: North America,
International, and AWS. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses
"Fulfillment," "Technology and content," "Sales and marketing," and "General
and administrative" based on usage, which is generally reflected in the
segment in which the costs are incurred. The majority of technology
infrastructure costs are allocated to the AWS segment based on usage. The
majority of the remaining non-infrastructure technology costs are incurred in
the U.S. and are allocated to our North America segment. There are no internal
revenue transactions between our reportable segments. These segments reflect
the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company's business
performance and manages its operations.

North America

The North America segment primarily consists of amounts earned from retail
sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through
North America-focused online and physical stores. This segment includes export
sales from these online stores.

International

The International segment primarily consists of amounts earned from retail
sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through
internationally-focused online stores. This segment includes export sales from
these internationally-focused online stores (including export sales from these
online stores to customers in the U.S., Mexico, and Canada), but excludes
export sales from our North America-focused online stores.

AWS

The AWS segment consists of amounts earned from global sales of compute,
storage, database, and other services for start-ups, enterprises, government
agencies, and academic institutions.

Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net
income (loss) is as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
North America| | | | |  
Net sales| $| 236,282 | | | $| 279,833 | | | $| 315,880 |  
Operating expenses| 227,631 | | | 272,562 | | | 318,727 |  
Operating income (loss)| $| 8,651 | | | $| 7,271 | | | $| (2,847)|  
International| | | | |  
Net sales| $| 104,412 | | | $| 127,787 | | | $| 118,007 |  
Operating expenses| 103,695 | | | 128,711 | | | 125,753 |  
Operating income (loss)| $| 717 | | | $| (924)| | | $| (7,746)|  
AWS| | | | |  
Net sales| $| 45,370 | | | $| 62,202 | | | $| 80,096 |  
Operating expenses| 31,839 | | | 43,670 | | | 57,255 |  
Operating income| $| 13,531 | | | $| 18,532 | | | $| 22,841 |  
Consolidated| | | | |  
Net sales| $| 386,064 | | | $| 469,822 | | | $| 513,983 |  
Operating expenses| 363,165 | | | 444,943 | | | 501,735 |  
Operating income| 22,899 | | | 24,879 | | | 12,248 |  
Total non-operating income (expense)| 1,279 | | | 13,272 | | | (18,184)|  
Benefit (provision) for income taxes| (2,863)| | | (4,791)| | | 3,217 |  
Equity-method investment activity, net of tax| 16 | | | 4 | | | (3)|  
Net income (loss)| $| 21,331 | | | $| 33,364 | | | $| (2,722)|  
  
66

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Net sales by groups of similar products and services, which also have similar
economic characteristics, is as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
Net Sales:| | | | |  
Online stores (1)| $| 197,346 | | | $| 222,075 | | | $| 220,004 |  
Physical stores (2)| 16,227 | | | 17,075 | | | 18,963 |  
Third-party seller services (3)| 80,461 | | | 103,366 | | | 117,716 |  
Subscription services (4)| 25,207 | | | 31,768 | | | 35,218 |  
Advertising services (5)| 19,773 | | | 31,160 | | | 37,739 |  
AWS| 45,370 | | | 62,202 | | | 80,096 |  
Other (6)| 1,680 | | | 2,176 | | | 4,247 |  
Consolidated| $| 386,064 | | | $| 469,822 | | | $| 513,983 |  
  
___________________

(1)Includes product sales and digital media content where we record revenue
gross. We leverage our retail infrastructure to offer a wide selection of
consumable and durable goods that includes media products available in both a
physical and digital format, such as books, videos, games, music, and
software. These product sales include digital products sold on a transactional
basis. Digital product subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing or usage
rights are included in "Subscription services."

(2)Includes product sales where our customers physically select items in a
store. Sales to customers who order goods online for delivery or pickup at our
physical stores are included in "Online stores."

(3)Includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, and
other third-party seller services.

(4)Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships,
as well as digital video, audiobook, digital music, e-book, and other non-AWS
subscription services.

(5)Includes sales of advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers,
authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and
video advertising.

(6)Includes sales related to various other offerings, such as certain
licensing and distribution of video content and shipping services, and our co-
branded credit card agreements.

Net sales are attributed to countries primarily based on country-focused
online and physical stores or, for AWS purposes, the selling entity. Net sales
attributed to countries that represent a significant portion of consolidated
net sales are as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
United States| $| 263,520 | | | $| 314,006 | | | $| 356,113 |  
Germany| 29,565 | | | 37,326 | | | 33,598 |  
United Kingdom| 26,483 | | | 31,914 | | | 30,074 |  
Japan| 20,461 | | | 23,071 | | | 24,396 |  
Rest of world| 46,035 | | | 63,505 | | | 69,802 |  
Consolidated| $| 386,064 | | | $| 469,822 | | | $| 513,983 |  
  
67

* * *

Table of Contents

  

Total segment assets exclude corporate assets, such as cash and cash
equivalents, marketable securities, other long-term investments, corporate
facilities, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and tax assets.
Technology infrastructure assets are allocated among the segments based on
usage, with the majority allocated to the AWS segment. Total segment assets
reconciled to consolidated amounts are as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
North America (1)| $| 108,405 | | | $| 161,255 | | | $| 185,268 |  
International (1)| 42,212 | | | 57,983 | | | 64,666 |  
AWS (2)| 47,574 | | | 63,835 | | | 88,491 |  
Corporate| 123,004 | | | 137,476 | | | 124,250 |  
Consolidated| $| 321,195 | | | $| 420,549 | | | $| 462,675 |  
  
___________________

(1)North America and International segment assets primarily consist of
property and equipment, operating leases, inventory, and accounts receivable.

(2)AWS segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment and accounts
receivable.

Property and equipment, net by segment is as follows (in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
North America| $| 54,912 | | | $| 83,640 | | | $| 90,076 |  
International| 15,375 | | | 21,718 | | | 23,347 |  
AWS| 32,151 | | | 43,245 | | | 60,324 |  
Corporate| 10,676 | | | 11,678 | | | 12,968 |  
Consolidated| $| 113,114 | | | $| 160,281 | | | $| 186,715 |  
  
Total net additions to property and equipment by segment are as follows (in
millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
North America (1)| $| 29,889 | | | $| 37,397 | | | $| 23,682 |  
International (1)| 8,072 | | | 10,259 | | | 6,711 |  
AWS (2)| 16,530 | | | 22,047 | | | 27,755 |  
Corporate| 3,485 | | | 2,622 | | | 2,688 |  
Consolidated| $| 57,976 | | | $| 72,325 | | | $| 60,836 |  
  
___________________

(1)Includes property and equipment added under finance leases of $5.6 billion,
$3.6 billion, and $422 million in 2020, 2021, and 2022, and under build-to-
suit lease arrangements of $2.7 billion, $5.6 billion, and $3.2 billion in
2020, 2021, and 2022.

(2)Includes property and equipment added under finance leases of $7.7 billion,
$3.5 billion, and $253 million in 2020, 2021, and 2022, and under build-to-
suit lease arrangements of $130 million, $51 million, and $20 million in 2020,
2021, and 2022.

U.S. property and equipment, net and operating leases were $109.5 billion,
$155.0 billion, and $180.0 billion, as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022,
and non-U.S. property and equipment, net and operating leases were $41.2
billion, $61.3 billion, and $72.9 billion as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and
2022. Except for the U.S., property and equipment, net and operating leases in
any single country were less than 10% of consolidated property and equipment,
net and operating leases.

Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment, including
corporate property and equipment, are allocated to all segments based on
usage. Total depreciation and amortization expense, by segment, is as follows
(in millions):

| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Year Ended December 31,  
| 2020| | 2021| | 2022  
North America| $| 6,421 | | | $| 9,234 | | | $| 11,565 |  
International| 2,215 | | | 3,022 | | | 3,483 |  
AWS| 7,603 | | | 10,653 | | | 9,876 |  
Consolidated| $| 16,239 | | | $| 22,909 | | | $| 24,924 |  
  
68

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 9.| Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants On Accounting and
Financial Disclosure  
  
None.

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 9A.| Controls and Procedures  
  
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We carried out an evaluation required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(the "1934 Act"), under the supervision and with the participation of our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the 1934 Act, as of December 31,
2022. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal
financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2022, our disclosure
controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that
information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or
submit under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported
within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and to provide
reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to
our management, including our principal executive officer and principal
financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.

Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the 1934
Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2022 based on criteria established in
Internal Control -- Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As a result of this
assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2022, our internal
control over financial reporting was effective in providing reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young has independently assessed the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and its report
is included below.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during
the quarter ended December 31, 2022 that materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.

Limitations on Controls

Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial
reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their
objectives as specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our
disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial
reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no
matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and
can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will
be met. Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that
misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues
and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected.

69

* * *

Table of Contents

  

  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Amazon.com, Inc.

Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

We have audited Amazon.com, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control --
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion,
Amazon.com, Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on
the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance
sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss),
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2022 and the related notes and our report dated February 2,
2023 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying
Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm
registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to
the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the
applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and
the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting
was maintained in all material respects.

Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides
a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

  

  

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Seattle, Washington

February 2, 2023

70

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 9B.| Other Information  
  
Not applicable.

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 9C.| Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections  
  
Not applicable.

PART III

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 10.|

Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance  
  
Information regarding our Executive Officers required by Item 10 of Part III
is set forth in Item 1 of Part I "Business -- Information About Our Executive
Officers." Information required by Item 10 of Part III regarding our Directors
and any material changes to the process by which security holders may
recommend nominees to the Board of Directors is included in our Proxy
Statement relating to our 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is
incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to our Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics and, to the extent applicable, compliance with Section
16(a) of the 1934 Act is set forth in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2023
Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. To the
extent permissible under Nasdaq rules, we intend to disclose amendments to our
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as waivers of the provisions
thereof, on our investor relations website under the heading "Corporate
Governance" at amazon.com/ir.

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 11.|

Executive Compensation  
  
Information required by Item 11 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 12.|

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Shareholder Matters  
  
Information required by Item 12 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 13.|

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
  
Information required by Item 13 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 14.|

Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
  
Information required by Item 14 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.

71

* * *

Table of Contents

  

PART IV

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 15.|

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
  
(a) List of Documents Filed as a Part of This Report:

(1) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements:

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years ended
December 31, 2022

Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years ended
December 31, 2022

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for each of the three
years ended December 31, 2022

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2021 and 2022

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for each of the three years
ended December 31, 2022

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

(2) Index to Financial Statement Schedules:

All schedules have been omitted because the required information is included
in the consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto, or because it
is not required.

(3) Index to Exhibits

See exhibits listed under Part (b) below.

(b) Exhibits:

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Exhibit Number| | Description  
| |  
3.1| |

[Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000110465922065872/tm2215904d1_ex3-1.htm)[Amazon.com,
Inc.](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000110465922065872/tm2215904d1_ex3-1.htm)[
(incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed
May 27,
2022).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000110465922065872/tm2215904d1_ex3-1.htm)  
  
| |  
3.2| |

[Amended and Restated Bylaws of Amazon.com, Inc. (incorporated by reference to
the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed January 6,
2023).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312523003621/d441973dex32.htm)  
  
| |  
4.1| |

[Indenture, dated as of November 29, 2012, between Amazon.com, Inc. and Wells
Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed November 29,
2012).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312512485763/d445039dex401.htm)  
  
| |  
4.2| |

[Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 13, 2022, among Amazon.com, Inc.,
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as prior trustee, and Computershare
Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee, containing Form of
2.730% Note due 2024, Form of 3.000% Note due 2025, Form of 3.300% Note due
2027, Form of 3.450% Note due 2029, Form of 3.600% Note due 2032, Form of
3.950% Note due 2052, and Form of 4.100% Note due 2062 (incorporated by
reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed April 13,
2022).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312522104336/d325485dex41.htm)  
  
| |  
4.3| |

[Officers' Certificate of Amazon.com, Inc., dated as of December 5, 2014,
containing Form of 2.600% Note due 2019, Form of 3.300% Note due 2021, Form of
3.800% Note due 2024, Form of 4.800% Note due 2034, and Form of 4.950% Note
due 2044 (incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form
8-K, filed December 5,
2014).](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312514434903/d831692dex41.htm)  
  
| |  
4.4| |

[Officers' Certificate of Amazon.com, Inc., dated as of August 22, 2017,
containing Form of 1.900% Note due 2020, Form of 2.400% Note due 2023, Form of
2.800% Note due 2024, Form of 3.150% Note due 2027, Form of 3.875% Note due
2037, Form of 4.050% Note due 2047, and Form of 4.250% Note due 2057
(incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed
August 22,
2017).](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312517264654/d274242dex42.htm)  
  
| |  
4.5| |

[Officers' Certificate of Amazon.com, Inc., dated as of December 20, 2017,
containing Form of 5.200% Note due 2025 (incorporated by reference to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed December 20,
2017).](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312517374998/d466336dex46.htm)  
  
| |  
  
72

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
4.6| |

[Officers' Certificate of Amazon.com, Inc., dated as of June 3, 2020,
containing Form of 0.400% Note due 2023, Form of 0.800% Note due 2025, Form of
1.200% Note due 2027, Form of 1.500% Note due 2030, Form of 2.500% Note due
2050, and Form of 2.700% Note due 2060 (incorporated by reference to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed June 3,
2020).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312520159531/d933420dex41.htm)  
  
| |  
4.7| |

[Officers' Certificate of Amazon.com, Inc., dated as of May 12, 2021,
containing Form of 0.250% Note due 2023, Form of 0.450% Note due 2024, Form of
1.000% Note due 2026, Form of 1.650% Note due 2028, Form of 2.100% Note due
2031, Form of 2.875% Note due 2041, Form of 3.100% Note due 2051, and Form of
3.250% Note due 2061 (incorporated by reference to the Company's Current
Report on Form 8-K, filed May 12,
2021).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312521159084/d508532dex41.htm)  
  
| |  
4.8| |

[Officers' Certificate of Amazon.com, Inc., dated as of December 1, 2022,
containing Form of 4.700% Note due 2024, Form of 4.600% Note due 2025, Form of
4.550% Note due 2027, Form of 4.650% Note due 2029, and Form of 4.700% Note
due 2032 (incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form
8-K, filed December 1,
2022).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312522296602/d376136dex41.htm)  
  
| |  
4.9| |

[Description of Securities (incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the Year ended December 31,
2019).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000101872420000004/amzn-20191231xex46.htm)  
  
| |  
10.1†| |

[1997 Stock Incentive Plan (amended and restated) (incorporated by reference
to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended June 30,
2022).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000101872422000019/amzn-20220630xex101.htm)  
  
| |  
10.2†| |

[1999 Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan (amended and restated)
(incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the Quarter ended June 30,
2022).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000101872422000019/amzn-20220630xex102.htm)  
  
| |  
10.3†| |

[Form of Indemnification Agreement between Amazon.com, Inc. and each of its
Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-23795) filed March
24, 1997, as amended on April 21,
1997).](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/0000891020-97-000603.txt)  
  
| |  
10.4†| |

[Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees
(incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
Year ended December 31,
2002).](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000095014903000355/v87419orexv10w12.htm)  
  
| |  
10.5†| |

[Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors (incorporated by
reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year ended
December 31,
2002).](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000095014903000355/v87419orexv10w13.htm)  
  
| |  
10.6†| |

[Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated by reference to the
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year ended December 31,
2001).](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000103221002000059/dex1016.htm)  
  
| |  
10.7†| |

[Form of Global Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for Executive Officers
(incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
Year ended December 31,
2021).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000101872422000005/amzn-20211231xex107.htm)  
  
| |  
10.8| |

[Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 29, 2022, among
Amazon.com, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the
other lenders party thereto (incorporated by reference to the Company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended March 31,
2022).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000101872422000013/amzn-20220331xex101.htm)  
  
| |  
10.9| |

[364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2022, among
Amazon.com, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the
other lenders party thereto (incorporated by reference to the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed November 18,
2022).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312522289041/d413765dex101.htm)  
  
| |  
10.10| |

[Term Loan Agreement, dated as of January 3, 2023, among Amazon.com, Inc.,
Toronto Dominion (Texas) LLC, as administrative agent, and the other lenders
party thereto (incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on
Form 8-K, filed January 3,
2023).](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312523000849/d429499dex101.htm)  
  
| |  
21.1| |

[List of Significant Subsidiaries.](amzn-20221231xex211.htm)  
  
| |  
23.1| |

[Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm.](amzn-20221231xex231.htm)  
  
| |  
31.1| |

[Certification of Andrew R. Jassy, President and Chief Executive Officer of
Amazon.com, Inc., pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.](amzn-20221231xex311.htm)  
  
| |  
31.2| |

[Certification of Brian T. Olsavsky, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Amazon.com, Inc., pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.](amzn-20221231xex312.htm)  
  
| |  
  
73

* * *

Table of Contents

  

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
32.1| |

[Certification of Andrew R. Jassy, President and Chief Executive Officer of
Amazon.com, Inc., pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
1350.](amzn-20221231xex321.htm)  
  
| |  
32.2| |

[Certification of Brian T. Olsavsky, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Amazon.com, Inc., pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
1350.](amzn-20221231xex322.htm)  
  
| |  
101| |

The following financial statements from the Company's Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, formatted in Inline XBRL: (i)
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (ii) Consolidated Statements of
Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss), (iv)
Consolidated Balance Sheets, (v) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
Equity, and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, tagged as blocks
of text and including detailed tags.  
  
| |  
| | As permitted by Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, the Company has
not filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K certain instruments defining
the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries
because the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed
10 percent of the total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis. The Company agrees to furnish a copy of such agreements to
the Commission upon request.  
| |  
104| |

The cover page from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2022, formatted in Inline XBRL (included as Exhibit 101).  
  
__________________

† Executive Compensation Plan or Agreement.

  

| | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Item 16.|

Form 10-K Summary  
  
None.

74

* * *

Table of Contents

  

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, as of February 2, 2023.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| AMAZON.COM, INC.  
| |  
| By:| /s/ Andrew R. Jassy  
| | Andrew R. Jassy  
| | President and Chief Executive Officer  
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated as of February 2, 2023.

| | | | | | | |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Signature| | Title  
| |  
/s/ Andrew R. Jassy| |  
Andrew R. Jassy| | President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive
Officer) and Director  
| |  
/s/ Brian T. Olsavsky| |  
Brian T. Olsavsky| | Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)  
| |  
/s/ Shelley L. Reynolds| |  
Shelley L. Reynolds| | Vice President, Worldwide Controller (Principal
Accounting Officer)  
| |  
/s/ Jeffrey P. Bezos| |  
Jeffrey P. Bezos| | Executive Chair  
| |  
/s/ Keith B. Alexander| |  
Keith B. Alexander| | Director  
| |  
/s/ Edith W. Cooper| |  
Edith W. Cooper| | Director  
| |  
/s/ Jamie S. Gorelick| |  
Jamie S. Gorelick| | Director  
| |  
/s/ Daniel P. Huttenlocher| |  
Daniel P. Huttenlocher| | Director  
| |  
/s/ Judith A. McGrath| |  
Judith A. McGrath| | Director  
| |  
/s/ Indra K. Nooyi| |  
Indra K. Nooyi| | Director  
| |  
/s/ Jonathan J. Rubinstein| |  
Jonathan J. Rubinstein| | Director  
| |  
/s/ Patricia Q. Stonesifer| |  
Patricia Q. Stonesifer| | Director  
| |  
/s/ Wendell P. Weeks| |  
Wendell P. Weeks| | Director  
  
75

